The Nigerian Army on Wednesday released 983 suspects cleared of links with Boko Haram insurgents. Maj.-Gen. Olusegun Adeniyi, the Theater Commander, Operation Lafiya
Dole (OPLD), made the disclosure in Maiduguri at the formal handing over
of the suspects to the Borno State Government. Adeniyi disclosed that the suspects comprised of 978 males and five females. He said that the affected persons were detained at a military facility over suspected links with the insurgents. Adeniyi explained that the suspects were cleared by the Joint Investigative Panel set up by the authorities. The commander added that the detainees were cleared of any links with
insurgents and certified fit for reintegration with their families and
society. “The release of the detainees mark a milestone in the Operation
Lafiya Dole to defeat insurgency and restore peace to the region. ”The Federal Government implemented the Operation Safe Corridor to
encourage insurgents to surrender for rehabilitation and integration
into the society. “I call on the insurgents to surrender to enable them benefit from
opportunities of the programme. Their aim for a caliphate will not be
actualize, I call on the insurgents to surrender. “Let Shekau and Albarnawi to die alone, they are defeated and you should not die with them,” Adeniyi said. While commending the Borno Government over its support to the
military, Adeniyi advocated for skill training programme to enable the
released suspects to learn trades and engage in productive activities. Gov. Babagana Zulum of Borno commended the gesture, adding that “the event is significant in paving the  way to end insurgency”. “It also signalled the beginning of peace in the state”. Zulum called on the people to accept the released detainees,
stressing that they were proved to be free and innocent sequel to
investigations conducted by the investigative committee. He called on the military to adopt proactive measures to release innocent persons in its facilities in accordance with the laws. Zulum said that the affected persons would be transfer to the Borno
State Rehabilitation Center, Bulumkutu, before reintegration with their
families and society. The governor added that the state government would provide skill
training and empowerment support to enable them to engage in productive
activities. Zulum further commended the military and other security agencies over
their sacrifices and contributions in the counter insurgency campaign
and peace building process in the state. Also speaking, Ahmed Jidda, one of the released detainees, thanked God for regaining his freedom. Jidda, who hailed from Adamawa, said he was detained for about three years at the military facility. He noted that the military authority had adopted proactive measures
to take care of their need and improvement of the well being of the
inmates. “We are fed, sheltered and clothed. Nobody abused or maltreated us at the center,” he said. Jidda commended the committee which established their innocence, adding that he was happy to be reunited with his family. Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.