Five Governors of Adamawa Ekiti, Kwara, Imo and Yobe State, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri .Kayode Fayemi, Abdurrahman Abdurrazaq, Emeka Ihedioha and  Mala Buni respectively at the presentations session of the 4th Istanbul  Public Private Partnership [PPP] Week. The technical sessions took place over the last two days. The 4th Istanbul PPP Week is being attended by participats from 33 countries. Dr Eyub Vural Aydin, Chairman of Istanbul Public Private Partnership
Centre of Excellence [PPPCoE] and Nail Olpak, President of Foreign
Economic Relations Board made introductory remarks, underscoring the
central role of PPP in project financing and the need to draw from a
wide range of experiences. They argued that the public sector does not – and will not – have the  resources to finance transformative projects needed to improve the  people’s living conditions. The way to go, therefore, is for the public and private sectors to team up together to do what each could not do on its own. Dr Aydin said in Turkey, they have since embraced PPP as an effective
way of harnessing private capital for funding projects together with
the government. He said over the last 15 years, more than 100 PPP
projects were executed at over 100 billion USD. The Head of PPP Division of the Islamic Development Bank [USDB]
Nouman Siddiqi also speaks about what the bank looks at in funding PPP
projects in member countries. His remarks focused on project preparation, including feasibility studies and capacity building. The Chairman of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum and Ekiti State
Governor, Kayode Fayemi speaks on Nigerians effort at putting the
regulatory frameworks and capacities needed for an effective PPP
environment. He said more Nigerian state governments are looking to private
capital to finance road construction and healthcare projects, among
others, adding that at the sub-national level, governors are grappling
with the question of sovereign guarantees which some potential PPP
partners are looking for. On the whole, however, he said Nigeria is ripe for investments in
agriculture, renewal energy, telecoms etc. He said so much progress has
been made in making the country an ideal destination for foreign
investments. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.