The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has upgraded its online application portal for the operation of the offshore Conformity Assessment Program (SONCAP) for processing of imports into Nigeria. A statement from the office of the Director General,  Osita Aboloma Esq. disclosed that the upgrade was in view of the classification of the portal as a critical national quality and trade Infrastructure. In spite of teething problems associated with such major transition of  Information,  Communication Technology (ICT) infrastructure,  the portal according to the statement is up and running. According to the Director Product Certification, Mr. Tersoo Orngudwem, the transition of the SONCAP Portal was not only successful but has ensured a necessary upgrade in the system to ensure optimal performance, enhance a seamless operation and more efficient service delivery to customers and stakeholders alike. He described the process as a reflection of SON’s strict adherence to FG policies to improve on local content and facilitate relevant technology transfer. Mr. Orngudwem described the upgraded portal as a one-stop shop that provides clients opportunity to apply, check status of application, send messages to SON and receive responses as well upload evidence of payments seamlessly. Other features according to him include:– profile of the work done on Clients dashboard– documents used for application are all on the Clients dashboard– No more TIN error– No more mistakes in company name etc. He assured Stakeholders of a shorter turnaround time and more efficient and effective service delivery. The SONCAP according to him, was introduced in 2005 as a prerequisite for importation of products into the country, while the online application portal was first introduced in 2015 as an initiative for deploying information technology in facilitating conformance of SON regulated imports to the requirements of applicable Nigeria Industrial Standards. The SONCAP online application portal has therefore created an easy access to SON’s conformity assessment regime for products imported into the country from the confines of homes and offices of customers without undue interface with SON staff, he said. ‘Bola Fashina SA (DG)/Head, Public Relations Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA