The Senate on Tuesday confirmed the nomination of 15 persons for the  appointment on board of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), out  of 16 names nominated by President Muhammadu Buhari. Senate, rejected the nomination of Dr Joy Nunieh, nominee for Rivers,
following her absence at the screening conducted by Senate Committee on
Niger Delta Nunieh ,who currently serves on the interim committee overseeing
activities of NDDC did not communicate to the Senate Committee on Niger
Delta over her absence from the screening. The confirmation of the 15 nominees followed the receipt of the
report  from the committee  and consideration of same at the senate 
committee of the whole. Presenting the report,Chairman of the committee Sen .Peter Nwaboshi
(PDP Delta)said the nominees were screened and found suitable to serve
on the board of the NDDC in accordance to section 2(2)( a) of the NDDC
Act, 2000. He,however, said the nominee for the Rivers did not appear for the
screening adding that there was no official communication to the
committee on reasons for her absent. Commenting on the report, Sen Ike Ekweremadu (PDP Enugu,) before the
confirmation raised the issue of the current interim management of the
NDDC noting that the committee was an act of sabotage and should be set
side. President of the Senate, Dr Ahmad Lawan in his remark thanked the
Senate particularly the committee on screening and confirmation of the
nominees. He urged the nominees to justify the trust bestowed on them by execution of projects for the people of the Niger Delta. He said the nominees, when inaugurated should ensure value for money on projects given the unreputable narratives about NDDC. President Muhammadu Buhari, had in a letter dated Oct 18, forwarded
the list of the nominees for the board and management of the NDDC to
senate. President of Senate, Ahmad Lawan who had announced the list at
plenary on Oct 29,directed the Senate Committee on Niger Delta to
conduct the screening of the nominees and report back in one week. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the confirmed nominees
are the Chairman, Dr Pius Odubu (Edo), Managing Director, Bernard
Okumagba (Delta),Executive Director Projects, Engr. Otobong Ndem (Akwa
Ibom). “Executive Director Finance and Admin, Maxwell Okoh (Bayelsa) as well
as Delta  representative, Prophet Jones Erue; Mr Victor Ekhatar (Edo)
and Nwogu Nwogu Abia. “Others are Theodore Allison (Bayelsa); Victor Antai (Akwa Ibom);
Maurice Effiwatt (Cross River), Olugbenga Edema (Ondo); Hon. Uchegbu
Kyrian (Imo). North -West nominee Aisha Muhammed,from Kano, Ardo Zubairu
representing North- East (Adamawa) and South West Representative Engr.
Badmus Mutalib (Lagos). The Senate also at plenary considered first reading of 11 bills. Among the bills presented for first reading are Pension Reform Act  Amendment Bill ,2019 sponsored by Sen Wamakko Aliyu (APC-Sokoto) and  National Agricultural Development Fund Establishment Bill ,2019  sponsored by Sen .Adamu Abdullahi (APC-Nasarawa). (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.