Welcome to a new Legislative Day in the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria! Senate President, Dr. Ahmad Lawan PhD, CON led the Principal Officers into the chambers; took the official prayers; and began the day’s proceedings at 10:25 am. ‪Senator Michael Nnachi moved for the approval of votes and proceedings of Wednesday, 6th November 2019. Senator Kabir Barkiya seconded.‬ ‪PETITION‬ ‪Senator Theodore Orji raised a petition on behalf of a constituency member on his unlawful dismissal from the Police Force.‬ Senate President, Ahmad Lawan PhD, CON referred the petition to the Committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions to report in 2 weeks. PRESENTATION OF BILLS– First Reading Proceeds of Crime Bill, 2019 (HB. 64) was read the First Time. Federal Polytechnic Aba (Est, etc) Bill, 2019 (SB. 10) was read the First Time. Federal Character Commission Act (Amendment) Bill, 2019 (SB. 57) was read the First Time. Nigerian Latin Village Ibadan (Est, etc) Bill, 2019 (SB. 68) was read the First Time. National Biotechnology Development Agency (Est, etc) Bill, 2019 (SB. 71) was read the First Time. Nigerian Tea and Coffee Development Council (Est, etc) Bill, 2019 (SB. 100) was read the First Time. Older Persons (Rights and Privileges) Bill, 2019 (SB. 114) was read the First Time. Corporate Social Responsibility Bill, 2019 (SB. 123) was read the First Time. Geospatial Information Regulation Bill, 2019 (SB. 131) was read the First Time. Payment System Bill, 2019 (SB. 148) was read the First Time. Power and Petroleum Safety Institute, Oraifite (Est, etc) Bill, 2019 (SB. 149) was read the First Time. CONSIDERATION A BILL- Second Reading “I rise to second the motion that this Bill is taken for the second reading. This is a straightforward Bill. The Bill should be given expedient hearing and should be passed.”- Senator George Sekibo. “This is a straightforward Bill and should be sent to the Committee level. I support this Bill, education is paramount.”- Senator Philip Aduda. “The whole world is now going digital, any attempt to create that awareness to our younger ones should be supported. For that, I want to support this Bill and I want to implore my other colleagues so this can be sent to the Committee for further deliberation.”- Senator Ibikunle Amosun. “The facts speak for themselves and I need to say clearly that I support this Bill wholeheartedly.”- Senator Sandy Onor. A Bill for an Act to establish the Federal Polytechnic Orogun, Delta State to provide full-time courses in technology, applied science, management and other fields of studies and to make provisions for the general administration and other related matters, 2019 (SB. 34) was read the Second Time. Senate President, Ahmad Lawan PhD, CON referred the Bill to the Committees on Tertiary Institutions and TETFUND to report in 4 weeks. “Let me congratulate the DSP, Ovie Omo-Agege and all those that contributed to the Bill, the time has come for this country to look into the direction of relevant education. Our assistance has to be functional. This Bill seeks to train young people in the educational sector of the economy and we should extend this beyond the federal polytechnics. We just have to do the same and no amount of investment will be too much.”- Senate President, Ahmad Lawan PhD, CON. MOTIONS “I support the need for this project to be completed, let me point out that this area is rich in mineral resources and with the project of this nature, it will serve the people of the community with clean water. I, therefore, call on my colleagues to support this motion in totality.”- Senator Aliyu Sabi. “Onhttps://www.amt247.com/wp-admin/media-new.phpce a new government is coming in place, they must continue with projects their predecessor started.”- Senator Uche Ekwunife. “Water resources are necessary, if this project is completed, the people will enjoy it. If the dam is completed the people will engage in more meaningful activities.”- Senator Oloriegbe Yahaya. “What needs to be done is to send this Bill to the Committee. I want to support this motion and move the prayers.”- Senator Philip Aduda. “For a project of this magnitude to be abandoned, it calls for a critical review. I am in support of this motion, every prayer here should be approved and forwarded to the Committee.”- Senator Christopher Ekpenyong. Senate resolved to: “It is very important that we continue to oversight when we legislate; having passed this resolution we also need to follow it up. Let me congratulate all our colleagues who have contributed to the debate in this motion.”- Senate President, Ahmad Lawan PhD, CON. Senate resolved to: “Our Committees on Navy, Marine Transport and Finance you have a big task, in 4 weeks we expect you would have conducted a serious mandate and report to the House the Senate. Committee on Navy will be the lead Committee.”- Senate President, Ahmad Lawan PhD, CON. “The incident is a sad one. We need to ensure drunk drivers do not drive. We urge the Federal Government to intervene. Every market of this size must have a huge presence of Fire Service.”- Senator Stella Oduah. “FRSC should be looking at the quality of our drivers that drive our lorries and the vehicles, the fire service should provide fire equipment in all major markets across the country so that if it happens there will be an immediate solution. All the prayers should be taken and the amendment that fire service should be provided in all the major markets should be approved.”- Senator Uche Ekwunife. “On behalf of the good people of Enugu, I commiserate with those that have lost their lives and for those injured, I pray for quick recovery and the resuscitation of those who lost their valuables. The fire service in Anambra State should also review their activities.”- Senator Chimaroke Nnamani. “We should look at ways of preventing this avoidable incident, it is important we look at the response mechanism of Nigeria in response to an emergency. As legislators, it behoves on us to make far-reaching Tanimu is an Online Editor with Africa's Largest TV Network. Produces when not on Social media.