The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has lauded the communal effort of the Igbomina, a sub-national group that cuts across three states, in complementing the efforts of the government in the provision of infrastructure and social services for the community. The Minister gave the commendation during the 2019 Igbomina Day celebration in Isanlu Isin, Kwara State, on Saturday. “I want to most sincerely congratulate the organizers of the 2019 Igbomina Day, especially for making the issue of development the focus of the celebration. “I say this because community development projects like this complement the efforts of the Federal and State Governments to bring development to the people. And we can’t have enough of them,” he said. Alhaji Mohammed, himself an Igbomina, said the developmental needs of the community motivated him to facilitate the development of infrastructure and provision of social services for the people of the area. “The rehabilitation of some township roads in Oro and Omu Aran, which I facilitated and where work is either completed or ongoing, is an example of such efforts. “I am also happy to announce that one of my friends, whom I approached for support, has agreed to provide medical equipment for the Primary Health Centre at Oro as well as educational materials for the University of Ilorin. I am making more contacts which I expect to come to fruition soon, and help bring development to our community,” he said. The Minister said the community is also a beneficiary of the Federal Government project for the rehabilitation of the Ilorin-Kabba road, which will resume as soon as the rains are over and funds are made available. He said another huge project coming to Kwara State is the recent award, by the Federal Government, of a N58 billion contract for the construction of the Bida-Sachi-Patigi Road and the Napenko Bridge along that road, which links Kwara with two other States, Niger and Kogi. Alhaji Mohammed said when completed, the bridge, which is the shortest link between the north and the south, will boost economic activities for people in Kwara, Kogi and Niger States. The biennial Igbomina Day Celebration is the largest congregation of all members of the socio-cultural group across Kwara, Osun and Oyo States. Segun AdeyemiSpecial Assistant To The PresidentOffice of The Minister of Information and CultureIsanlu Isin, Kwara State Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA