An NGO, Health Emergency Initiative (HEI), has advised the public to have a change of attitude toward taking pictures at the scene of  accidents and during other emergency period. Its Executive Director, Mr Paschal Achunine, spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Lagos. Achunine said that positive actions should be taken to rescue the
victims of accidents and disaster instead of people taking pictures and
videos to post on social media. NAN reports that HEI is a non-profit making organisation established
to assist victims of road accidents and indigent citizens by offsetting
their hospital bills before the arrival of the victims families. Achunine said, “There is an urgent need for change of attitude at the scenes of accidents and or other emergencies.” According to him, HEI has began training Emergency/First Responders
to ensure they are equipped with the right Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation
(CPR) First Aid and Crowd Control Skills during emergencies. He said no fewer than 30 people had been trained, including officials of the Federal Road Safety
Corps (FRSC), Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Vehicle
Inspection Officers (VIOl, Police, Corps members the Prisons Service
officials. Achunine said that social workers at the National Orthopaedic
Hospitals, Igbobi, and social workers at the Lagos University Teaching
Hospital (LUTH) and students had also been trained. “Everyone so trained is duly certified and licenced to handle such
cases without fear of harassment by law enforcement agencies or the
hospital authorities,” he said. NAN reports that FRSC had commended the HEI for giving prompt support
and assistance to save lives of over 200 accident victims in the last
two years. Mr Hyginus Omeje, Lagos State Sector Commander of the FRSC, gave the  commendation at the third year anniversary of the NGO in 2018. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.