President Muhammadu Buhari and Prime Minister Mark Rutte met on Tuesday  in Abuja to discuss bilateral relations and agreed that Nigeria and the  Netherlands would continue to work together to improve bilateral trade volumes as well as private sector investments. A communiqué
issued at the end of the meeting said the two leaders reviewed the
progress that has been made with implementing the Memorandum of
Understanding on deepening the bilateral relations between the two
nations concluded and signed by the respective Foreign Ministers in The
Hague in July 2018. ‘‘We welcome the steps that have been made to
increase bilateral economic cooperation and are happy to see higher
levels of bilateral trade volumes as well as private sector investments,
’’ the communiqué signed by Nigeria’s Ambassador to the Kingdom of
Netherlands, Oji Ngofa and the Deputy Head of Mission, Netherlands
Embassy in Abuja, Ewout-Jan de Wit said. ‘‘The contribution of
Dutch private businesses, both global players and small, micro and
medium enterprises, to the Nigerian economy is duly noted. ‘‘Investments by the Netherlands Investment Bank FMO and the Dutch Good
Growth Fund are contributing to better access to finance and energy for
the private sector. ‘‘Nigeria confirms its commitment to
continuing reforms for a conducive business and investment environment
while the Netherlands pledges to continue assisting Nigeria for an
increase in agricultural productivity especially horticulture, seed, and
sustainable palm oil production,’’ it added. President Buhari
and Prime Minister Rutte also reiterated their commitment to the fight
against human trafficking, appreciating the close collaboration between
both countries in supporting the victims. Noting with concern the
challenging security situation in the West-African sub-region and
Nigeria, The Netherlands acknowledged the sustained efforts of Nigeria
in the fight against insurgency and in countering violent extremism. ‘‘The Netherlands will continue to provide humanitarian assistance to
those in need, in particular women and girls, in order to mitigate the
impact of insecurity and displacement,’’ the communiqué said. Prime Minister Rutte, who is on a two-day working visit to Nigeria is
leading a trade delegation of 8 Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of Dutch
multinationals currently operating in Nigeria with huge investment
portfolios in the agriculture, finance, oil and gas sectors. After the bilateral consultations between delegations of both countries,
President Buhari and Prime Minister Rutte witnessed the signing of the
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on dairy chain development between
Royal FrieslandCampina WAMCO and the Government of Niger State. The MoU was signed by Governor Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger State and Mr
Ben Langat, Managing Director, FrieslandCampina WAMCO Plc. The agreement on dairy chain development is expected to save Nigeria about 1.2 billion dollars from milk importation annually. Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.