President Muhammadu Buhari and his Dutch counterpart, Mark Rutte,  Prime Minister of Netherlands, were pleased with the public-private  partnership between Friesland Campina WAMCO Nigeria PLC and the Niger  State government on the backward integration initiative. Both country leaders witnessed the signing of a Memorandum of  Understanding (MoU) between the Governor of Niger State, Alhaji Abubakar  Bello, and Mr Roel van Neerbos, President  of FrieslandCampina Consumer  Dairy, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Neerbos said this in a statement he issued out in Lagos on Wednesday
and said that the partnership was an important step in strengthening the
long standing relationship with the Nigerian government. “The collaboration aligns with our vision to provide better nutrition to the world with our Dairy Development Programme (DDP). “FrieslandCampina enables the local dairy farmers, like in Nigeria,
to run their businesses optimally and raise the quality and quantity of
their dairy production via the DDP,” Neerbos said in the statement. He said that the backward integration initiative project was ongoing
on a 10, 000 hectares of land at the Bobi Grazing Reserve in Niger state
under FrieslandCampina WAMCO’s Dairy Development Programme (DDP). Neerbos said that the project was in line with government’s National
Livestock Transformation Plan which seeks to grow livestock farming in
Nigeria and transform the dairy sector into an economic force that would
enhance economic growth and people’s empowerment. “As the federal government’s preferred partner on dairy development
and backward integration initiatives, FrieslandCampina WAMCO continues
to lead DDP in Nigeria by expanding to more states. “Currently, the company has developed pasture on 1,000 of the 10,000
hectares of land assigned to it at the Bobi Grazing Reserve. “It has established key infrastructure including a Milk Collection
Centre with a high capacity cooling tank and high quality milk testing
equipment. “Furthermore, the company has emerged as the first to introduce
hydroponics – a method of growing high-nutrient grass in harsh
environments – a green house pasture development that would ensure
year-round feed for cows. “It has also provided solar-powered boreholes to support farmers with potable water and provide water for the cattle,” he said. He noted that the MOU between Niger State and the company
acknowledges the nine-year successes of the latter’s in DDP in Oyo, Ogun
and Osun States respectively. According to him, it seeks its replication and expansion of local
dairy production at the reserve, as well as train dairy cooperatives in
Niger State on best global practices. Neerbos said that the pact was made possible by the intervention and
staunch support of the Central Bank of Nigeria, one of the core partners
of the DDP in Nigeria. Also, Mrs Ore Famurewa, Executive Director, Corporate Affairs,
FrieslandCampina WAMCO, said that the DDP enables dairy farmers to run
their businesses optimally with higher yields and better milk quality. “This successful and unique model has benefitted over 7000 farmers
including 950 women, a Milk Bulking Center (MBC), six Milk Collection
Centers (MCC) and 20 Milk Collection Points (MCPs) across Oyo, Ogun and
Osun states,” she said. Famurewa said that the company with its DDP partners are
collaborating to deepen the inclusive model for local sourcing of fresh
milk in Nigeria. “Through the Dairy Development Programme, the company provides
quality nutrition from Grass to Glass by breeding well cared-for cows
which are the basis of good quality milk. “With strong alignment to FrieslandCampina WAMCO’s business strategy,
the DDP drives local product innovation that provides support in
reducing incidences of malnutrition,” she said. Famurewa stressed the company’s commitment to improve the standard of
living of dairy farmers, milk quality, safety and volumes, create
employment, and capacity building to safeguard food security and
nutrition. She said that FrieslandCampina would continue to lead the dairy space  and maintain its position as the market leader in Dairy Development  Programme in Nigeria, while stating its commitment to supporting the  Federal Government boost food production. (NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.