Gov. Babagana Zulum of Borno has relieved the state Head of Service (HOS), Mr Mohammed Hassan, of his appointment. Alhaji Usman Shuwa, the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), made the disclosure in a statement on Tuesday in Maiduguri. Shuwa disclosed that the governor also approved the appointment of Mr Simon Malgwi, as the new HOS, adding that the appointment was with immediate effect. “Gov. Babagana Zulum has relieved Mohammed Hassan of his appointment as the HOS with immediate effect. “He has accordingly approved the appointment of Barrister Simon Malgwi, as the new HOS,” he said. Shuwa added that until his appointment, Malgwi was the Solicitor General and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education. Similarly, Zulum approved the constitution of a committee on the implementation of the National Minimum Wage and Consequential Salary Adjustment. He disclosed that the government side would be headed by Mr Kaka Shehu, the Commissioner for Justice, while Mr Inuwa Yusuf, the Chairman, Medical and Health Workers Union of Nigeria (MHWUN) would lead the labour side of the committee. He explained that the Head of Service (HOS) would serve as Co-Chairman to be assisted by nine other members on the government side. He listed the members to include the Commissioner for Finance, Budget and Planning, the state Auditor General, and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Budget and Planning. Others members are the Head of Biometric Unit; the Permanent Secretary, Public Service and Manpower Development, two former Head of Service (HOS) and Mr Idris Jalo, a retired Permanent Secretary. While the Permanent Secretary, Administration and General Services would serve as secretary of the committee. He added that the labour side of the committee comprised of 10 members drawn from the leaderships of various organisations and unions in the state. According to him, the committee is expected to submit its report within three weeks. Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA