A Catholic organisation, Justice  Development and Peace Commission, has donated 410 chairs to some primary  and secondary schools in Nasarawa Local Government Area of Nasarawa  State. Rev. Fr. Mathew Ofoku, Coordinator
of the organisation in the state, made the disclosure on Friday while
distributing the chairs in Nasarawa Local Government Area of the state. Ofoku said that the importance of
education cannot be over-emphasised to the socio-economic development of
the society, hence the need for the organisation’s gesture. He stated that the gesture was to complement government’s efforts in improving the standard of education in the state. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports
that the intervention programme was in collaboration with the Institute
of Human Virology, Nigeria (IHVN). The coordinator emphasised that
education was a sure route to escape from poverty box, adding that any
educated person would be able to move to places beyond his local
environment. ‘‘This is part of our humanitarian gesture; we have also renovated some schools, built toilet facilities among others. ‘‘The distribution of the seats
(chairs) will not only help the pupils and the students, but will also
improve on the standard of education in the state,’’ he said. He averred that the development of any society could be determined by the quality of education given to its citizens. He posited that education was the best legacy parents, organisations and government should leave for their children. The cleric urged the benefiting schools to ensure adequate maintenance and use of the chairs for the purpose it was meant for. Responding, Mr Haruna Abubakar,
Secretary of the Local Government, commended the organisation for the
gesture, and gave assurance that the chairs would be utilised by
students NAN reports that the benefiting
schools include: Government Secondary School (GSS), Mararaba Udege, GSS
Marmara, GSS Kurudu and Tammah Primary School, LGEA Tulluwa. Others are the Central Primary  School Nasarawa, LGEA Eyenu, LGEA Marmara, Kofara Kudu Primary school,  all in Nasarawa Local Government Area of the state. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.