The Inspector-General of Police, Mr  Mohammed Adamu, has appointed SP Ebere Amaraizu (Enugu PPRO) as National  Coordinator of Police Campaign Against Cultism and Other Vices  (POCACOV). The appointment is in furtherance of the moves to strengthen the fight against cultism. This is contained in a letter
addressed to the Commissioner of Police in Enugu State, Mr Sulaiman
Balarabe, which was signed by the Force Public Relations Officer, DCP
Frank Mba, on behalf of the IGP. The letter was also copied to Amaraizu, who is also the Police Public Relations Officer in Enugu State on Tuesday in Enugu. It also stated that having POCACOV
as a national programme would help in stemming incidents of cultism and
its related offences while helping the fight against insecurity
generally in the country. The letter reads in part: “The
Inspector General of Police has graciously approved the officer’s
request as proposed in the letter under reference, and has also directed
that you convey to him the IGP’s approval designating him as the
National Coordinator of the programme.” “The approval of the IG is
predicated on his belief that the exercise will help the police in the
fight of insecurity in the country, especially cultism among the youth
and students. “Thereby helping in making Nigeria a safer and better place for all. “While wishing the organisers a successful flag off, do accept the assurance of the IG’s warmest regards, please.’’ Reacting to the appointment,
Amaraizu lauded the police boss for the opportunity to serve as the
national coordinator of the programme in order to see that young people
were transformed and well-oriented to contribute positively to societal
growth. He said that POCACOV had spread its
anti-cultism message as well as programme of de-radicalisation to
various strata of the society especially to young Nigerians. Amaraizu said the programme
engagement and sensitisation had been taken to primary, secondary and
tertiary institutions as well as artisans and young folks in communities
in the state. “Apart from the sensitisation and
engagement, we have mapped and streamlined de-racalisation programme
that runs for months, as a follow-up. “This is to ensure that those redeemed from the claws of cultism do not go back to the evil act,’’ he said. It would be recalled that POCACOV,
which pilot-stage started in Enugu state, had helped in reducing
incidents of cultism and its related vices in the state. It thus had made the state one of the safest in the country. The POCACOV campaign had enjoyed the
applause and support of well-meaning individuals in the society as well
as Enugu state government. The pilot stage of the campaign was
conceived, started and nurtured by Amaraizu since 2012 during the
current IGP Adamu days as commissioner of police in Enugu state. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.