 Adamawa State Governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri Thursday charged the   newly inaugurated members of the State Assembly to swing  into action by  making quick the passage  of bills that will be beneficial to the  citizens of Adamawa. The Governor spurred the challenge when he
inaugurated members of the seventh Adamawa State House of Assembly at
the  legislative chamber in Yola. Governor Umaru Fintiri posited that the people of Adamawa State voted  for change, and therefore urged all the members to offer to the  electorates the required legislation that will guarantee dividends of  democracy to all. He further urged the  legislators to make good
governance not only possible but sustainable so as to fast track
development for the state to forge ahead. The Governor expressed
confidence that the current administration will  rewrite the history and
change the twisted narrative associated with Adamawa State by embarking
on people oriented projects. Governor Umaru Fintiri revealed
that his administration will immediately present before the Honourable
House, a bill to outlaw the Shilla notorious terror group and to also
prescribe punitive measures against all forms of criminality within the
state. The Governornor expressed optimism and looks forward to  working with the all members regardless of party differences so as to    build a harmonious relationship among the different arms of Government  with regards to the principle of the separation of power. Earlier  on Hon Aminu Iya Abass ( PDP ) of the Uba /Gaya constituency emerged as  the Speaker after contesting the position unopposed . Hon Pwamwakaino Mackondo (PDP) Numanbalso  emerged as Deputy speaker. The new speaker also led the 25 Members of the state Assembly to a courtesy call on the Governor at the Government House. (Credit: George Kushi, Chief Press Secretary to Adamawa State Deputy Governor) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.