(NAN) A witness, Mr Isah Bello, on Wednesday told a Gudu Grade I Area  Court that the late Sen.  Usman Al’Bashir had seven biological children  and one wife. The wife of late Albishir filed a suit through her Counsel, Ayoola
Oke, seeking the court to order the distribution of the estate left
behind by her husband between the heirs according to Islamic law. Bello, a legal practitioner, who was a close friend of the deceased
further informed the court that he personally knows about seven
properties that the deceased left behind in Abuja alone. When asked if he is aware of other beneficiaries left behind by the senator, he told the court that he was not aware. ”I am only aware of the seven children I mentioned earlier and his wife who is a medical doctor. “The deceased didn’t even have parents because they died years ago. “I don’t now know if at some point in time he had another family,” he said. He also said the younger brother of the deceased who was handling his
properties in Abuja, handed it over to the Center to Dispute Resolution
of Sharia Court of Appeal. He added that the late senator, owned Savanna Group of Companies which comprised of five different companies. Challenging his testimony, the respondent’s counsel, Mohammed Sani,
urged the court to strike out the witness testimony due to the fact that
a lot of  what he said were hearsay. The Judge, Ado Muktar, however upheld the witness testimony. Muktar said: ”according to Sharia law, there are six instances where
hearsay evidence can be taken. One of the instances is during
inheritance if the testimony tallies with the information already
gathered by the court.” He then adjourned the case  until July 1 for continuation of hearing. NAN reports that the late Albishir represented Yobe North
Constituency, and was a Governorship candidate of Peoples Democratic
Party (PDP)in 2001. He died on July 3, 2012 in an autocrash, which occurred on the Kano-Zaria expressway. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA