 The Federal Government says it has concluded arrangements to enroll  all Federal Universities on the Integrated Personnel and Payroll  Information System (IPPIS) platform. The Deputy Director, Press, office of the Accountant-General of the
Federation, Mr Henshaw Ogubike made this known in a statement issued on
Wednesday  in Abuja. According to Ogubike, the AGF, Mr Ahmed Idris, made the disclosure at
the meeting of Vice Chancellors, Registrars and Bursars of Federal
Universities. Idris said that enrolling the Universities on IPPIS platform would
promote transparency and accountability in government expenditure and
achieve the desired objectives of government in centralising its payroll
system. He said that the centralised payroll for the universities will be
prepared by individual universities but co-ordinated by IPPIS while the
total management of the human resources will rest squarely with the
Universities. The AGF explained that the IPPIS scheme helps to facilitate easy
storage, updating and retrieval of personal record for administrative
and pensions processing to aid planning and budgeting. Idris said that prior to 2015, the total number of Ministries
Departments and Agencies on IPPIS was 288 with total staff count of
235,858. However, he said that as at today, the total number has grown to 561 MDAs with a total staff count of over 755,422. The AGF further said that the cumulative savings achieved on IPPIS platform between 2017 and 2018 was N273.8 billion. Idris assured the Universities’ heads that the IPPIS was capable of
accommodating all its financial peculiarities such as sabbatical,
visitation, honorarium and earned allowances. In the same vein, Idris said the enrollment of Federal Polytechnics was scheduled for early July, 2019. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA