Lagos, June 21, 2019 (NAN) Oil marketers on Friday commended  President Muhammadu Buhari for appointing Mr Mele Kyari as the new Group  Managing Director(GMD) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation  (NNPC). The marketers under the aegis of Major Oil Marketers Association of
Nigeria (MOMAN) and Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of
Nigeria (IPMAN), gave the commendation in separate interviews with the
News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. NAN reports that Kyari, who is the 19th GMD of NNPC, was appointed on
June 20, to take over from Dr Maikanti Baru on July 7, after retiring
at the age of 60. Mr Adetunji Oyebanji, Chairman of MOMAN, urged Kyari to foster
industrial peace in the industry and focus on refining directly or
through collaboration with private entities. He appealed to Kyari to push for the passage of the Petroleum
Industry and Governance Bill (PIGB) so that the industry would be on a
sound footing. Oyebanji urged the new GMD to support the downstream which is under
severe duress, saying that this could be attested to by many divestments
and foreclosures by Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON)
(poor margins, HSEQ, shrinking private participation). “We also advise the newly-appointed GMD to build on the efforts and
collaboration by the downstream as witnessed late last year when another
round of scarcity was avoided. “We also advise him to put NNPC on an even more commercial footing. “We congratulate and welcome him to the new job. We wish him a
successful tenure, God’s guidance based on his vast experience in the
industry, over 27 years. “The little I know of him suggests he is a very calm, deep,
intelligent and cerebral person. We urge him to have good relationship
with the unions,’’ he said. Oyebanji, the Chairman, Downstream Group, Lagos Chamber of Commerce
and Industry (LCCI), said Kyari’s excellent international connections
following his tenure at OPEC while representing Nigeria, was also a
boost. “We look forward to him to further stabilising the Upstream sector,
getting competitive terms in place to ensure investment continues to
flow into the sector. He commended Baru for his doggedness, total commitment and dedication
in fostering and ensuring industry best practice in the oil and gas
sector, saying that Baru had good collaboration with the downstream
operators. Oyebanji said that the outgoing GMD had also done remarkably well in
ensuring that backlog of cash calls was addressed and also done well in
ensuring effective upgrading of terminal facilities. Also speaking, Mr Chinedu Okoronkwo, National President of IPMAN,
urged the new GMD and his management team to build on the structure of
the NNPC to make it competitive, globally; and give targets to all
subsidiaries. Okoronkwo advised Kyari to put in place performance benchmarks and
fix all refineries to ensure that they work at optimal level, “even if
it means using expatriates in the interim’’. He, however, lauded the efforts of President Buhari in selecting an
industry professional that can effectively institute the right reform
urgently needed in the corporation. Okoronkwo commended the wide contributions of the outgoing GMD and
his team toward improving and stabilising the oil and gas sector. According to him, the new GMD has the task of revamping the industry
and repositioning the corporation to meet international standard. He was optimistic that Kyari would bring his vast experience acquired
over the years in both private and public sectors of the oil industry
to bear on this new assignment as GMD. He, however, urged the new GMD to prove his competency by justifying the confidence reposed in him. NAN reports that Kyari, who hails from Borno, bagged a Bachelor of
Science in Geology and Earth Science from the University of Maiduguri in
1987. He was a former Nigeria’s Representative at the Organisation of
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and led the OPEC’s Economic
Commission Board, which was in charge of reviewing the global oil
markets. Prior to his appointment at the OPEC, Kyari was the Group General Manager, Crude Oil Division, NNPC. He began his career at the Nigerian Geological Survey Society as a
Field Geologist from 1988 to 1991 before he became a Seismic Data
Geophysicist at Integrated Data Services Ltd. (IDSL), a subsidiary of
the NNPC. In 1998, he was in National Petroleum Investment Management Services
(NAPIMS) and then became the Abuja Operations Manager of the same
organisation. He became the Head of the Production Contracts Department between 2007 and 2009. In 2016, he was the Supervisor of Production Sharing Contract for the NNPC. Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA