(NAN) Gov. Mala Buni of Yobe on Monday in Damaturu inaugurated the  distribution of 2.3 million Long Lasting Insecticidal Nets (LLINs) in  the state to eliminate malaria. Buni, represented by his deputy, Alhaji Idi Gubana, said that
distribution of the nets was part of government’s effort to free its
citizens from mosquito bites in order to protect them from malaria
attack. “The Yobe government in conjunction with Federal Ministry of Health
through the National Malaria Control Programme (NMCP), with support from
the World Bank and other role back malaria partners has successfully
distributed millions of lLLINs in all the 17 local government areas of
the state. “This is as part of this administration’s determination to accelerate
drive in line with Federal Government’s agenda to eliminate malaria in
Nigeria,” Buni said. He commended the efforts of all the development partners – Global
Fund, Malaria Consortium, National Malaria Control Program, World Health
Organisation (WHO) and UNICEF, among others, for their support to the state. Ha urged traditional rulers and religious leaders to support the
noble initiative of distributing the LLINs for effective malaria
elimination. In his remarks, the West and Central Africa Programme Director for
Malaria Consortium, Dr Kolawole Maxwell, stated that the 2.3 million
LLINs were targeted at least 4.2 million people of Yobe. “We are gathered here today to flag of the distribution of 2.3 LLINs
procured by Malaria Consortium with funding from the Global Fund. These
nets would reach at least 4.2 million citizens of Yobe. “The ultimate outcome of the benefits of this initiatives are to
reduce morbidity and mortality caused by malaria, improve household
economy, increase school attendance for children and productivity for
parents,” Maxwell added. The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Health, Mr Abdul’Aziz
Abdullahi, noted that Yobe was one of the six states for mass
replacement campaigns in 2019. “The campaign across the six states is aimed at delivering over 25
million LLINs to beneficiaries in the country with the support from
Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and malaria (GFATM). He added that Nigerian government had adopted the use of LLINs as one
of the key strategies of the integrated package to prevent and
eliminate malaria in the country. The National Coordinator, Malaria Elimination Programme, Dr Audu
Bala, urged the State Net Ambassadors to continue to lead the process in
order to fast track the implementation of the remaining activities
outlined in the campaign timeline in the state. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA