Islamic scholars from Ekiti, Isin, Irepodun and Oke-Ero Federal  Constituency, Kwara, on Saturday  offered prayers for a successful  tenure in office for the 9th Speaker of the House of Representatives,  Femi Gbajabiamila. The prayer, which was organised by the member representing the
constituency, Rep. Raheem Olawuyi, was attended by party stalwarts,
associates and friends of the lawmaker. The prayer, which was led by the chief Imam of Omu-Aran, Alhaji Sodiq
Alalobo, took place at the Constituency office of Olawuyi in Omu-Aran,
the headquarters of Irepodun Local Government area of Kwara. In his lecture at the prayer, the Chief Imam of Osi, Alhaji Saadu
Ajisefini, said the Speaker must lead with the fear of God and be
faithful in all his dealings with Nigerians. He asked lawmakers in the country to be responsible and responsible
to those who voted them and those who do not give them their votes. The Islamic Scholar urged Olawuyi to ensure the return of Islamic teachers to schools in the constituency. Olawuyi in his response said some members of the 8th assembly held
Nigeria to ransom, promising that such a thing won’t repeat itself in
the 9th assembly. “The 9th assembly will not be a rubber stamp to the executive but collaborate with the executive to move Nigeria forward. “The victory of Femi Gbajabiamila as the speaker of the House of Representatives, is a victory for Nigeria. “My support for Gbajabiamila before his emergency as the speaker was
not borne out of selfish interests but for the collective interest of
Nigerians. “A lot of intrigues and politicking took place before his eventual emergence,” he said. He urged the clerics to always pray for leaders, adding that their prayers can ward off sycophants and evil advisers. Olawuyi, however, said he doesn’t want to be involved in the kind of
campaigns that took place in the last elections, saying that he wants
his achievements in the next four years to speak for him for
re-election. He said he organised the prayers to appreciate God for the success of APC in the last elections.(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA