To mark the final day of the Nigerian Bar Associations Law Week,  Kaduna chapter, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Wole Ogunbiade, has  advised lawyers not to defend kidnappers and terrorists at all cost, so  as not to endorse crime. Ogunbiade said this in Kaduna on Tuesday where he spoke on the topic;
‘Law and morality: The question of offering defence to kidnappers and
terrorists, where do we draw the line?’ He said that although offering legal services to kidnapers and
terrorists was allowed in the the rules of professional conduct, lawyers
should however adhere strictly to the ethical standards and code of
conduct of the law profession. Ogunbiade added that lawyers should not allow emotions and personal
interest or any other gratification to hinder them from carrying out
their duties in accordance to the ethics and the law, and always justify
their actions with clear conscience. “​It is the responsibility of a legal practitioner to uphold and
observe the rules of professional conduct, promote and foster the course
of justice. “A legal practitioner has a duty to accept any brief in the court,
unless there are special circumstances that justify his refusal. “However, it is the duty of every legal practitioner to decide what
cases to take to court for the plaintiff and what cases to contest in
court for the defendant. “Where a legal practitioner undertakes a defence of a person accused
of a crime, the legal practitioner should exert himself by all fair and
honourable means to put before the court all matters that are necessary
in the interest of justice. “Any legal practitioner who offers his services to a defendant in a
trial for kidnapping or terrorism, should do it in order to uphold the
fair trial of the defendant as enshrined in our laws but not to defend
him at all cost, legal practitioners should not endorse crime. “Every accused person has a right to be tried before proven guilty,  when evidence and substantial elements are provided against any suspect  of kidnapping or terrorism, lawyers should not maneuver at any rate to  have the suspect go free,” he said. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.