 No fewer than 11 African leaders attended the ceremonies for the  maiden celebration of June 12 as Democracy Day in Nigeria on Wednesday. Among them were President Idris Deby of Republic of Chad; President
Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz of Mauritania; President Paul Kagame of Rwanda,
President George Weah  of Liberia; President Denis Sassou Nguesso of
Congo and President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana. Others were President Emmerson Mnangagwa of Zimbabwe; President Macky
Sall of Senegal; President Adama Barrow of The Gambia and President
Mahamadou Issoufou of Niger Republic as well as the Prime Minister of
Uganda, Mr Ruhakana Rugunda, On arrival at Eagle Square, Abuja, President Muhammadu Buhari wend
round to have a    handshake with each of the leaders and
representatives of other world leaders represented at the ceremony. Buhari arrived at the venue at 10.05 a.m., watched the parade mounted
by members of the Nigeria Armed Forces and Nigeria Police Force before
being driven round the arena in an open vehicle. Other dignitaries at the ceremony included the Vice-President, Prof.
Yemi Osinbajo and wife, Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo, the President of the
Senate, Sen. Ahmad Lawan, and the Speaker of the House of
Representatives, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila. The Federal Government marked Democracy Day on June 12 for the first
time after the president signed the law to commemorate the 1993
Presidential Election considered to be the freest and most credible poll
in Nigeria. The election which the late MKO Abiola won as the candidate of the
Social Democratic Party against Alhaji Bashir Tofa of the National
Republican Convention, was cancelled by the military government led by
Gen. Ibrahim Babangida. As a mark of honour for Abiola, the president re-named Abuja National
Stadium MKO Abiola National Stadium in addition to having posthumously
honoured him in 2018 with the highest national award of Grand Commander
of the Federal Republic. In the past 19 years, the country had marked May 29, which was the
date the military handed over power to civilians, had been marked as
Democracy Day. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.