In
its efforts to ensure effective Mainstreaming of Human Rights and Humanitarian
Principles and Civilian Protection into Counter Insurgency Operations in the
North East, the National Human Rights Commission has taken the training for the
Military to the Frontlines. In
his welcome statement in one of the locations of the training in Bama Borno
State, the Executive Secretary of the Commission Tony Ojukwu Esq said the
justification for the training cannot be over emphasized as the war against
insurgency is complicated by its asymmetric nature. Ojukwu
who was represented by the Assistant Director Public Affairs, Fatimah Agwai
Mohammad, said “the insurgents live within us and there is hardly a clear drawn
battle line between the insurgents and the civilian population, therefore there
is a need to prosecute insurgency operation in order to win the hearts and minds
of the civilian population in Nigeria”. At
the training which was put together by the National Human Rights Commission
with support of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the
Human rights Chief lamented the untold hardship caused to innocent civilians as
a result of the insurgency, he said the training was imperative considering
that most of the officers who come in contact with the insurgents are in the
frontlines. He
noted that experience gathered from years of military training by the
Commission in the North East shows that officers in the frontlines deserve to
be trained and retrained on mainstreaming human rights in their operations.
According to him, this will enable them uphold the human rights and fundamental
freedoms of the citizens as guaranteed by the constitution. The areas covered
in the training are mostly the epic center of insurgency in Borno State like
Gwoza, Bama, Damasak, Mongonu and Ngala. The
Executive Secretary further stated that in order to sustain the gains made in
the fight against insurgency, the Commission in collaboration with UNHCR conducted
a train of trainer programme for key Military officers in Maiduguri early in
the year “it is expected that the training is stepped down to the Brigades, Platoons
and other Military Formations and Units in other parts of the North East  like it is presently taking place here today”. The
Brigade Commander of the 21 Armored Brigade Bama, Col. Vitus Unachukwu
expressed delight at the training saying the officers who have benefitted from
the rear training cannot afford to fall short of their duties especially in
relation to the respect for human rights. He enjoined them to make the best use
of the opportunity to better their performance and live a good legacy for
emulation in the military. One
of the resource persons Maj. E.S Krigbode, O.C Military police said the
training has exposed participants to a lot of acts that are condemnable by the
military. He said even though some of them are contained in the rules of
engagement, learning about them from another agency of government like the NHRC
will not only refresh their memories but will make them guard against such
acts. NHRC Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA