Kogi Youth Movement (KYM), a volunteer group of youths from Kogi,
 on Wednesday rejected the second term ambition of Yahaya Bello, and
insisted of direct primary to pick the candidate of the All Progressives
Congress ahead of the Nov. 21 governorship election. The youths who protested against Bello’s 2nd term ambition at the
Unity Fountain arena in Abuja with placards of different inscriptions,
said the KYM was adding their voice to the millions of others voices in
the state that have rejected the governor’s ambition. Secretary of the group, Mr Ayuba Abdullahi, told newsmen during the
protest that their aim was to ensure good governance and foster youth
development in all its ramifications. He described Bello’s first term as “disastrous for youths in Kogi and
also kicked against his plan to compel the traditional institution in
the state to support his ambition. “As youths, we are impressed with APC national leadership and
President Muhammadu Buhari for his obvious strides to reposition our
nation for the better. “But it is with great displeasure that we pour out our mind that APC
Kogi Chapter is now a centre for impunity, abnormalities and bias,
orchestrated by Gov. Yahaya Bello. “It is with this sense of pain that we decided to cry out to the
world most importantly, President Buhari and the APC National Working
Committee under the trusted leadership of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole; that
they may come to our rescue in Kogi. “The most recent among all of the numerous of problems and issues
bedeviling Kogi is the intimidation of our traditional rulers who Gov.
Yahaya Bello threatened. “We want to state emphatically that Bello doesn’t deserve any
sympathy because he doesn’t have sympathy for his citizens, hence the
national body should disregard his plea to return against the wishes of
the masses,” Abdullahi said. According to him, APC risks losing Kogi, if the governorship ticket is handed over to Bello. “We promise APC victory, but just change Bello.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that some of the
inscriptions on the placards read “All our hospitals are not
functioning”, “Workers are owed salary”, “Comrade Oshiomhole Kogi loves
you and we want direct primary,” as well as “PMB come to our rescue.”
(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA