The Riyom Local Government Area (LGA) in Plateau is to constitute a  task force to curb the menace of open defecation in the area. The local government chairman, Mr Emmanuel Jugul, disclosed this on
Wednesday in Lo-Gwom community in Kwi, during the official commissioning
of a solar powered water scheme and school sanitation facility
sponsored by the EU and UNICEF. He said that the taskforce when constituted, would ensure that people
comply with the order to reduce to the barest the incidence of open
defecation in the LGA. Jugul reassured the sponsors of the project, that the project would
be protected, maintained and sustained to ensure that it serves the
community optimally. Similarly, the paramount ruler and the Atar-Aten of Ganawuri , Yakubu
Chai-Mang, in his address, disclosed that the various traditional
rulers in the state would tcollaborating with the state government to
end open defecation. He revealed that the traditional rulers would ensure that houses
without latrines or toilets in the various communities and villages
would be charged to court. The traditional ruler thanked the sponsors for the project, saying
that it would go a long way in reducing the incidence of water borne
diseases and the stress involved in accessing potable water in the
community. Ambassador Ketil Karlsen, the delegation Head of the EU to Nigeria
and ECOWAS, in his address called on the community to ensure that the
project was sustained as it would help reduce the incidence of water
borne diseases to the bearest minimum. Karisen said that the investment in human capital was fundamentally
important and this project was one of such ways in investing in human
capital. Also speaking, Mr Peter Hawkins, the UNICEF representative in
Nigeria, tasked the people of the community to protect the project by
ensuring its maintenance not just for themselves but for their children. Hawkins urged them to find local solutions to ensuring that they had
latrines and that they should inculcate the habit hand washing. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the community of 3,025  persons before the commissioning of the project, depended on one open  dug well and streams as their source of water. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.