The Institute of African and Diaspora Studies (IADS) at the  University of Lagos (UNILAG), on Thursday said that unemployment was a  major reason why more young Nigerians are desperately seeking opportunities abroad. The Institute’s Head of Research, Dr Ayo Yusuff, also told the News
Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that Nigerian youths were increasingly
becoming restless because of unemployment and under-employment. Yusuff said that Nigeria was blessed with a vibrant youth population
that the government had yet to efficiently and effectively harness. “Nigeria is lucky to have a very vibrant youth population. We have a
very high percentage of youths in this country, and this ought to be an
advantage for this country. “’The problem is that our government has not been able to manage this advantage very well. “We currently have low rate of employment in this country, and wages
are not even commensurate with the economic demands of people. So, where
our young men and women see their hopes will be raised, they go there. “They are restless because they have energy that pushes them to be
gainfully employed in other countries because we are not tapping their
energy,’’ he said. Yusuff said that vocational education had been neglected in Nigeria,
adding that it was imperative for various levels of government to
urgently begin to encourage more young Nigerians in vocational studies. The institute’s head of research said that there was a lot for
Nigeria to learn from countries like China where young men and women had
taken to different vocations. “We must understand that the things that we currently buy in Nigeria
are made by young Chinese that have taken to different vocations. “I think that the governments should really begin to look at the
possibility of encouraging our youths in vocational studies and
employments,’’ he said. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA