President
Muhammadu Buhari has appointed Mr Mele Kolo Kyari as new Group Managing
Director for the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation. The corporation in a statement released by the  NNPC Group General
Manager, Group Public Affairs, Mr Ndu Ughamadu, in Abuja, on Thursday
said Kyari will take over from Dr Maikanti Baru on July 7. The President also appointed seven new Chief Operating Officers. The new officers are: Mr Roland Ewubare (South-South), Chief
Operating Officer, Upstream; Alhaji Mustapha Yakubu (North-Central),
Chief Operating Officer, Refining and Petrochemicals; Mr Yusuf Usman
(North-East), Chief Operating Officer, Gas and Power; Ms. Lawrencia 
Ndupu (South-East), Chief Operating Officer, Ventures. Others are Malam Umar Ajiya (North-West) – Chief Financial Officer;
Mr  Adeyemi Adetunji (South-West), Chief Operating Officer, Downstream;
and Mr Farouk Sa’id (North-West), Chief Operating Officer, Corporate
Services. Their appointment takes effect from June 28. President also directed the new appointees to work with the current
occupants of the various positions between now and July 7, towards a
smooth transition on 8 July, 2019. However,
the appointment of Mr Farouk Garba  (North West), who is replacing a
retiring Chief Operating Officer, is effective from June 2. In a related development, current Baru, in a statement  has congratulated the new appointees. NAN
reports that Kyari,  a geologist, was Group General Manager, Crude Oil
Marketing Division of NNPC and also  Nigeria’s National Representative
to the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC. Kyari
is a quintessential crude oil marketer with prerequisite certification
and outfield pedigree in Petroleum Economics and crude oil and gas
trading. In the last 27 years he had traversed the entire value chain of the Petroleum Industry, with exceptional records of performance. Under
his watch, the Crude Oil Marketing Division has recorded noticeable
transformation in the management and sales of the various Nigeria’s
crude oil grades via an infusion of transparency and automation of the
processes. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.