Mrs Regina Adie, the State Nutrition Officer, Cross River Primary  Healthcare Development Agency (CRSPHDA), on Tuesday said that only 7.8  per cent of mothers in Cross River exclusively breastfed their babies. Adie told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Calabar that the figure
was too low for a state like Cross River, adding that residents and the
state government were not happy about it. The official said that CRSPHDA wanted all mothers in the state to not
only know the benefits of exclusive breastfeeding, but the fact that
breast milk was a natural food created by God to enhance good health in
babies. According to her, the state is trying to eliminate the cultural
practice of given babies water along with breast milk in the first few
months of delivery to ensure healthy babies. She noted that exclusive breastfeeding was for the benefit of babies, mothers and the nation at large. “Mothers should ensure that in the first 1,000 days of their babies’
lives, breast milk should be given exclusively and regularly because we
discovered that most of our mothers lacked awareness. “When a baby is delivered, its intestines are very tender; it is
breast milk that helps the child eliminate every impurity in the baby,
as it serves as antibiotics. “Also, the yellowish milk from the mother contains Vitamin A, which
is very good for the child’s sight; in fact, the importance of breast
milk cannot be over-emphasised. “When you start introducing artificial milk or water early, you
introduce foreign bodies into the baby, especially the water, because
the sources are often suspect and may lead to diarrhea,” the nutrition
officer said. NAN reports that World Breastfeeding Week was held in Calabar from
Aug. 1 to Aug. 7 with a rally, symposium and a round-table discussion
with journalists. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.