The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) has launched a device,
Digital Seraphin Can, to help ensure accuracy in dispensing of petroleum
products across the country. Mr Sadiu Abubakar, the DPR Head of Public Affairs, Abuja, who led  some journalists on monitoring of some sealed filling station in Abuja  on Tuesday, said  the device was one of major moves to help ensure  smooth operation by marketers. “The digital Seraphin Can is of many advantages to the consumers, marketers and to the Nigerian Government because of its role. “This is because you will never achieve anything without accuracy and you know what it means to government revenue. “This is why DPR is insisting that it cannot continue with use of
analogue machine to check what the marketers are doing . The Digital
Seraphin Can is very efficient,” he said He said the device would help to check safety, gauge temperature and ensure accuracy. Commenting on monitoring of the filling stations, Abubakar said it
was to ensure that they were working in line with government policies as
the ember months  approach. He said that DPR Abuja had conducted a technical audit of all petrol stations in Abuja. “We audited about 316 of them out of which 10 were  found to be below standard and we have asked them to upgrade their stations. “Five out of the 10 have upgraded and they are operational and we
have gone round the remaining five, where we discovered that they are
beyond redemption. “What they have to do is serious upgrade before they will be allowed to operate,” he said He said part of the exercise was to ensure that fuel supply and distribution consistency was maintained. “We need to look ahead , very soon, we are entering the ember months
and it is during this period that we have issues of supply gap and the
rest of them. “We need to be on ground to make sure that everybody celebrates the yuletide in a very happy and good mood,” he added. Two of the sealed filling stations are JIBEC filling station and ASIO
and Sons limited all located in Gwagwalada Area Council, on the
outskirts of Abuja. In an interview, the DPR Abuja Zonal Controller, Mr Buba Abubakar,
re-emphasised that the purpose of the auditing of filling stations was
to ensure smooth and uninterrupted supply of petroleum products. “We are going into ember months, that is why we have audited the filling stations first. “I am telling the marketers that we are going to sustain our
surveillance, so, they should be careful with what they are doing,” he
said. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA