 Abia Dr. Uchechukwu Ogah Minister of State Mines and Steel Development Adamawa Muhammadu Musa Bello Minister of Federal Capital Territory Akwa Ibom Sen. Godswill Akpabio Minister of Niger Delta Anambra Dr. Chris N. Ngige Minister of Labour and Employment Anambra Sharon O. Ikeazor Minister of State Environment Bauchi Adamu Adamu Minister of Education Bauchi Amb. Mariam Y. Katagum Minister of State Industry, Trade and Investment Bayelsa Timipre Sylva Minister of State Petroleum Resource BenueSen. George Akume Minister of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs Borno Mustapha Baba Shehuri Minister of State Agriculture and Rural Development Cross River Goddy Jedy – Agba Minister of State Power Delta Festus Keyamo, SAN Minister of State Niger Delta Ebonyi Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu Minister of Science and Technology Edo Dr. Osagie Ehanire Minister of Health Edo Clement IKanade Agba Minister of State Budget and National Planning Ekiti Otunba Richard Adeniyi Adebayo Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment Enugu Geoffrey Onyeama Minister of Foreign Affairs Gombe Dr. Ali Isa Ibrahim Pantami Minister of Communications Imo Emeka Nwajiuba Minister of State Education Jigawa Engr. Suleiman H. Adamu Minister of Water Resources Kaduna Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning Kaduna Dr. Muhammad Mahmoud Minister of Environment Kano Sabo Nanono Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Kano Maj. Gen. (RTD) Bashir Salihi Magashi Minister of Defence Katsina Mr. President Minister of Petroleum Resources Katsina Sen. Hadi Sirika Minister of Aviation Kebbi Abubakar Malami Honourable Attorney General and Minister of Justice Kogi Ramatu Tijjani Minister of State Federal Capital Territory Kwara Lai Mohammed Minister of Information and Culture Kwara Gbemisola Saraki Minister of State Transportation Lagos Babatunde Raji Fashola (SAN) Minister of Works and Housing Lagos Sen. Adeleke O. Mamora Minister of State Health Nasarawa Mohammed H. Abdullahi Minister of State Science and Technology Niger Amb. Zubairu Dada Minister of State Foreign Affairs Ogun Arch. Olamilekan Adegbite Minister of Mines and Steel Development Ondo Sen. Tayo D. Alasoadura Minister of State Labour and Employment OsunRauf Aregbesola Minister of Interior OyoSunday Dare Minister of Youth and Sports PlateauPauline Tallen Minister of Women Affairs RiversRotimi Amaechi Minister of Transportation SokotoMuhammadu Maigari Dingyadi Minister of Police Affairs Taraba Eng. Saleh Mamman Minister of Power Yobe Abubakar D. Aliyu Minister of State Works and Housing Zamfara Sa’adiya Umar Farouk Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA