Flights resumed at Hong Kong’s airport today  after two days of disruptions marked by outbursts of violence  highlighting the hardening positions of pro-democracy protestors and the  authorities in the Chinese city that’s a major international travel  hub. About three dozen protestors were camped in the airport’s arrivals
area, a day after a mass demonstration and frenzied mob violence forced
more than 100 flight cancelations. But check-in counters were open and flights appeared to be operating
normally. Protestors spread pamphlets and posters across the floor in a
section of the terminal but were not accosting travellers. A statement from the airport’s management said it had obtained “an
interim injunction to restrain persons from unlawfully and willfully
obstructing or interfering” with airport operations. It said an area of the airport had been set aside for demonstrations,
but no protests would be allowed outside the designated area. The airport had closed check-in for remaining flights late Tuesday
afternoon as protestors swarmed the terminal and blocked access to
immigration for departing passengers. Tuesday’s cancelations were in
addition to 200 flights backlogged from Monday. Most of the protestors left after officers armed with pepper spray
and swinging batons tried to enter the terminal, fighting with
demonstrators who barricaded entrances with luggage carts. Riot police clashed briefly with the demonstrators, leading to
several injuries and prompting at least one officer to draw a handgun on
his assailants. The burst of violence included protestors beating up at least two men
they suspected of being undercover Chinese agents. Airport security
appeared unable to control the crowd, and paramedics later took both men
away. Police have acknowledged using “decoy” officers, and some protestors
over the weekend were seen being arrested by men dressed like
demonstrators — in black and wearing face masks. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.