Ebonyi government has urged residents not to panic over the reported  yellow fever outbreak in the state, as it had taken measures to curtail  it. Dr Daniel Umezurike, State Commissioner for Health, gave the
assurance on Monday in Abakaliki while addressing newsmen, urging the
people to, however, observe all preventive measures against the disease. Umezurike urged residents to disregard conflicting information on the
number of causalities from the outbreak, stressing that  authentic
figure of deaths from the disease was two. “This briefing has become extremely necessary following headlines in
almost all the newspapers and media houses that 16 people lost their
lives from the disease’s outbreak in the state. “We have thoroughly investigated the report and found it malicious,
misleading to the public as we visited the reported communities and
interviewed members of the public. “We found that none of the media houses actually went to the
communities and that the villagers innocently attributed every death
within this period to the disease which some reporters quoted without
authentic source,” he said. The commissioner clarified the rumour of an unknown illness in
Ndinwigwe, Ndingele ward of Izzi Local Government Area, noting  that the
state’s Rapid Response Team (RRT) was deployed to the area to
investigate. “They discovered that a 34 year-old farmer was on admission in the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) health facility with symptoms of
fever and yellowness of the eyes. “The index case, was a seven year old child who took ill on July 2,
2019 with similar symptoms of fever and yellowness of the eyes but was
referred to the General Hospital, Iboko. “Four samples from the victims were collected and sent to the Public
Health Laboratory, Lagos but due to non availability of reagents, they
were sent to national reference laboratory, Abidjan, Cote D’Ivoire. “Three of the samples tested positive to yellow fever on July 22,
2019 and the Nigerian Centre for Disease control (NCDC) consequently
declared this an outbreak of yellow fever. “The summary of the situation is that the state has recorded nine
positive cases; three Polymerase Chain Reaction and six serology with
two deaths,” he said. He noted that six patients were presently on admission: three in
Ndingele MDGs health facility, one in Iboko General Hospital and two in
Alex Ekwueme Federal Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki. “The disease which is transmitted by mosquitoes belonging to the
eades and heamogogus genus, affects all ages with an incubation period
of three to six days following bite from an infected mosquito. “The disease symptoms which include jaundice fever, renal damage and
haemorrhage, among others, can be prevented with use of mosquitoes
barrier nursing, environmental cleanliness especially, removal of
stagnant water,” he said. Dr Kenneth Ugbala, Secretary to Ebonyi Government (SSG) said the
government had curtailed the outbreak through drastic interventions. “We should open our minds and get information that we can defend as
the commissioner for health and his team should be quoted for the
authentic information,” he said. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.