President Muhammadu Buhari has directed the Defence Headquarters to
commence immediate investigation of incident involving the troops of 93
Battalion, Takum, Taraba, which resulted to the death of three police
officers and a civilian. The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, disclosed this
when he briefed State House correspondents at the end of the meeting of
the National Security Council, presided by President Buhari at the State
House, Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Army and Police
authorities had on Wednesday constituted a Joint Investigation Panel to
investigate the incident. Col. Sagir Musa, Acting Director of Army Public Relations, in a
statement on Wednesday, said the panel would be headed by the Deputy
Inspector General of Police in charge of Criminal Investigation
Department, DIG Mike Ogbizi. Musa said that the panel would jointly investigate and report on the
true circumstances surrounding the unfortunate incidence in order to
avert future occurrences. However, the Chief of Air Marshal said: “The council also decided
that the unfortunate incidents in Taraba State in Ibi, a committee will
be setup under the Defence Headquarters to critically look into the
circumstances that led to the unfortunate incident.’’ Abubakar also revealed that the council evaluated the current
strategy of managing internal security operations across the country. According to him, the council expressed satisfaction with the current efforts aimed at restoring law and order in the country. “We are making substantial progress in all the areas of conflicts,’’ he said. On the issue of using technology and drones to fight crimes as
earlier pledged to the south-west leaders by the President, Abubakar
said technology would continue to play a very critical role in resolving
security challenges in the country. “All the services are using one technology or the other in order to ensure that our country is secured. “So, security will continue to play a role and we are also looking at
other areas of technology that are not currently in use to ensure that
we put together all that is required to ensure the security of Nigeria
and Nigerians,’’ he added. The chief of air staff also reassured Nigerians that the armed forces
of Nigeria and other security agencies would continue to work to ensure
the security of Nigerians and to also ensure that no individual or
group of individuals undermine the territorial integrity of country. NAN reports that the Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba,
had earlier issued a statement that the Police Operatives, led by ASP
Felix Adolije of the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) reportedly came
under sudden attack by soldiers along Ibi–Jalingo Road. Mba said that the operatives, who were taking the arrested suspect,
Alhaji Hamisu to the Command Headquarters in Jalingo, were shot at
severally by the soldiers in spite of sufficient proof that they are
Police personnel on legitimate duty. He said that three Policemen comprising one Inspector and two
Sergeants and one civilian died as a result of gunshot injuries
sustained in the attack while others sustained serious gunshot wounds. According to him, the soldiers thereafter released the handcuffed suspect, Alhaji Hamisu, who is now on the run. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.