No fewer than one thousand people, including children have benefited
from the free surgical intervention offered by the Lagos State
Government and a non-governmental organisation, BOSKOH Lagos Healthcare
Mission. Mr Tunbosun Ogunbanwo, the Director, Public Affairs, Lagos State Ministry of Health, made this known to newsmen in Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the screening was
organised by the Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu and Kadiri Olusola Hamzat
(BOSKOH), in collaboration with an NGO, Healthcare Mission International
(HMI), for children from ages zero to 12. The free health screening, which began on Aug. 2, lasted till Aug. 10
in seven designated Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) in Lagos. The screening covers organ impairment, life-threatening ailments in
children, visual and hearing problems, mental health services and
orthopaedic services like bone deformity and hernia. NAN also reports that the aim of the programme was to restore hope to
people at the grassroots, and as well alleviate their medical
challenges and inadequacies. Ogunbanwo said that the surgical intervention included: orthopaedic,
eye, dental procedure, Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) surgery, among others. He said the surgical intervention was an offshoot of the free
screening conducted in designated primary healthcare centres across the
state. According to him, it was carried out simultaneously in seven general hospitals in the state. On the intervention, Mrs Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, Wife of Lagos State, who
visited beneficiaries of the free medical intervention in five of the
centres, expressed delight at the impact the interventions had on lives
of the beneficiaries. “I have been to five general hospitals today to observe what has been done for the past few days. “I was at the Massey Street Children’s Hospital; General Hospital,
Lagos; Onikan General Hospital; Gbagada General Hospital and the
Orile-Agege General Hospital. “I must say I am impressed with the surgeries that were being done. “It is indeed heartwarming that the beneficiaries of these free surgical interventions were quite appreciative,” Sanwo-Olu said. The governor’s wife commended the management of BOSKOH Lagos Healthcare International (HMI) for their humanitarian service. Sanwo-Olu said she was aware that the medical team even worked during
the last public holidays to ensure the success of the programme. She expressed optimism for improvement in the health sector,
considering the various health interventions being implemented by the
present administration. The governor’s wife said that there was hope for Lagos, and indeed its citizens. Also, Mrs Nike Osai, Executive Director of the NGO, said that over 88
eye surgeries were conducted in Orile-Agege General Hospital while over
120 surgeries were done at the Onikan General Hospital. Osai said over 300 cases were currently being treated at the General
Hospital, Lagos, while surgeries were still ongoing at the Badagry and
Epe General Hospitals. “As we speak, surgeries are ongoing in all our centres, and we really
appreciate everyone that has partnered with us and volunteered for this
noble course without being paid,” she said. The executive director appreciated the state government for deeming
it fit to partner with her organisation to bring succour to people,
especially children who were the most vulnerable in society. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA