 Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Mallam Mele Kyari, has disclaimed reports of explosion on the Abura Crude Trunk line operated by the Corporation. The line, situated at Otu-Jeremi town in Ughelli, Delta State, which is operated by the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC), NNPC’s Upstream subsidiary, was reported to have gone up in flames yesterday by a section of the media. But speaking shortly after teeing off the 2019 NNPC Upstream Golf Tournament in Benin City on Saturday,Mele Kyari described the incident as a mere rupture on one of the Corporation’s pipeline which would be fixed within three days. “It wasn’t an explosion. It was a rupture on one of our pipelines. Our engineers have moved to site. In three days, we would fix it. We’ve since contained the spill coming out of that pipeline. There was no fire anywhere on the pipeline. There’s no cause for alarm,” he said The GMD, who assured that the incident would have no any impact on the nation’s power supply, also called on host communities within the area to disregard the rumours and go about their normal activities. On the Upstream Golf Tournament, he said the Benin Golf Club very important for the  NNPC because it availed the staff of the various operations of the Corporation in Benin City the opportunity to work and maintain a healthy lifestyle through the game of golf. “Our operations require the support of all stakeholders to succeed. We see our relationship with the Benin Golf Club as crucial in helping us achieve our key targets of growing production, increasing the nation’s reserves & ensuring lasting peace in the N/Delta,” the GMD added Earlier in his remarks, the Captain of the Benin Golf Club, Prince Aghatise Erediauwa said  NNPCgroup had an age-long relationship with the Club which was in line with its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy. We are very honoured to have the GMD coming down here to tee off this year’s tournament even though he has very tight schedule. We are very pleased and we hope this relationship continues for years to come,” the Captain added. Over 200 golfers from the country were expected to participate at this year’s tourney, which also saw the commissioning of some projects executed by the #NNPC @ the Golf Course. Ndu Ughamadu   Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA