President Muhammadu Buhari will soon take a decisive action on last  week’s killing of three policemen in Wukari, Taraba State by soldiers  allegedly mistaken for kidnappers, the Presidency said last night. The three officers and a civilian killed by soldiers were  said to be on legitimate criminal investigation activities to Taraba  State, to arrest one Alhaji Hamisu Bala Wadume, allegedly indicted in a  series of high-profile kidnap incidents in the state. To get to the root of the matter, President Buhari constituted an
investigative panel during the National Security Council meeting at the
Presidential Villa last Thursday. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity,
Mallam Garba Shehu, said Buhari was waiting for the outcome of the
investigation by the Defence Headquarters. The presidential spokesman on his Twitter handle, @GarShehu, wrote:
“In response to press questions, I will confirm that a committee was set
up during the National Security Council meeting to investigate the
killing of three policemen and a civilian by soldiers in Taraba State.” In another tweet Shehu wrote: “Contrary to those mischievous  insinuations, President Buhari had ordered the Chief of Defence Staff to  set up an investigation committee with representatives from all the  security organisations in the country, including the police force.” He clarified that Buhari was not indifferent stating that “The
President is not indifferent to the unfortunate incident, and would take
decisive action as soon as the report of the panel is submitted to
him.” “He is following due process and procedure. Putting the cart before the horse is not President Buhari’s way of doing things. “Nigerians should show patience while the President awaits the report of the panel from the Chief of Defence Staff.”  Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.