The new Vice-Chancellor  of Nnamdi Azikiwe University (NUA), Awka, popularly known as UNIZIK,  Prof. Charles Esimone, says he will transform the institution from its  4,029 position to be among the best 200 in the world. The
News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Esimone’s single tenure of
five years as UNIZIK vice-chancellor commenced in June, 2019  and is
expected to end around May, 2024. Esimone, the sixth substantive vice-chancellor of the university, said this when he received the Council of Past Presidents of Students Union Government of Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka on Friday. “On
assumption of duties, I have set a target code named, “Project 200”,
which is aimed at making UNIZIK to be among the 200 best universities in
the world from its present position of 4029,” he said. The
vice-chancellor said that machinery was being set in motion to establish
industries that would be students-driven in the university. He
noted that his administration would partner with international and local
investors to re-model the university to become one of the the best
universities across the world. “My
vision for the university is to  produce graduates that are not only
employable but ready to be self employed based on enterprenuerial skills
they acquired while in the university,” he said. He
noted that in no distant time, students would be able to pay their way
through the university as practised abroad from the work-earn-and-study
programmes. Esimone
pledged to run an administration built on ideas and flair for
excellence and also promised to partner with the past presidents for the
good of the university. The Leader of the group, Prof. Dennis Aribodor,  said the members of the council came to congratulate the vice-chancellor on his emergence as the 6th substantive cice-chancellor of the university. Aribodort, the SUG president of 1996/97 session and immediate past Chairman of ASUU UNIZIK Branch, urged him to take the school to an enviable height. He
commended him for sending a signal by his own actions that activities
of the university must be according to time, no more African time. He
expressed the willingness of the Council of Past Presidents of the
university to partner with him as critical stakeholders of the
university community. The
chairman of the presidential body of the email council, Mr Patrick
Afubero, told Esimone that the past presidents came together as one body
to contribute their own quota towards the development of the
university. “We
are already doing well in our various fields of human endeavour which
cut across politics, academics, government and business and the Council
is ready to use its wide tentacles and connections to support the
development of the university,” Afubero said. The
Secretary of the Council, Mr Chigozie Onwuanyi, encouraged the
vice-chancellor to live up to the principles of hard work, transparency
and accountability, which the students had already imputed to him as a
“man of God”. Other dignitaries in the delegation are  Prof.  Emeka Ezeonu, the Resident Electoral Commissioner of Independent  National Electoral Commission, Imo State and Mr Ifeanyi Egwunyenga, a  serving Commissioner in Delta State. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.