A Joint Inter-Agency Team, led by the Independent Corrupt Practices
and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), has arrested 37 officials
of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) for allegedly extorting money
from motorists on Nigerian highways. The Team, comprising officials of ICPC, FRSC and the Department of
State Security (DSS), also arrested five persons said to be agents of
the corps officials, in a sting operation carried out simultaneously in
the six geo-political zones. ICPC Spokesperson, Mrs Rasheedat Okoduwa, made this known in a statement in Abuja on Monday. According to her, the team swung into action following the receipt of
a complaint from the management of the Corps of massive extortion of
money from motorists on the highways by its patrol teams. “The FRSC management had, in the complaint to the Commission,
observed that incidents of extortion were rife in the six states of
Kaduna, Bauchi, Abia, Rivers, Kogi and Ogun. “Based on this, the ICPC-led team went into action and identified the
notorious spots in each of the aforementioned states, which include Aba
in Abia State; Ahoada, Ajaokuta, Itori, Toro and Gwantu, which are
located in Rivers, Kogi, Ogun, Bauchi and Kaduna States respectively.” She said that 13 FRSC officials and two civilians were arrested in
Aba in the South-east, while 24 other FRSC officials and three civilians
were arrested from various spots on roads spread across the other
geo-political zones. “Findings from the Joint Inter-Agency Team indicated that various
sums of money were found on the arrested Corps officials during the
sting operations before they were taken into ICPC custody. “However, all the officials arrested and three civilian accomplices
have been granted administrative bail, and will be prosecuted by the
Commission at the conclusion of investigations,” she explained. Meanwhile, FRSC Public Education Officer, Mr Bisi Kazeem, has said  that the arrest was to send signals to anyone still harbouring  corruption tendencies that the days of reckoning were here. NAN 