The National Commission for Refugees, Migrants& Internally Displaced Persons (NCRMI) on Monday commenced a nationalskills acquisition programme for about 2000 Nigerian returnees andpersons of concern. NCRMI’s South-West Zonal Head, Mrs Margaret Ukegbu, made the disclosureat the opening ceremony of a Five-Day Skills Acquisition Training forreturnees and persons of concern in Surulere and Yaba, in Lagos State. Ukegbu said that the decision to train the returnees and others bythe commission was to discourage them and those intending to travel toEurope or other foreign countries. “The Honourable Federal Commissioner believes that providing durablesolutions to the challenges of these returnees is the best way toensure that they have dignity. “So the commission has come up with the training programme as the mostpractical and result-oriented way of empowering these returnees andpersons of concern to become self-sufficient and self-sustaining. “The commission really wants these young Nigerians to know that thereis no need for them to be seeking better lives abroad and that thatbetter life and opportunities are available to them in this country. “It is just for them to seek the better life and opportunities aroundthem and earn revenue on a daily basis, rather than risking their liveswhile trying to travel to Europe,’’ she said. Ukegbu said that the training was scheduled to hold simultaneouslyin Yaba and Surulere in Lagos State, Ijebu-Ode in Ogun State, andthe North-East of the country, within five days. The NCRMI official said that the training was meant to develop theskills of the returnees, refugees and persons of concern incosmetology, phone repairs, soap making and photography. She said that the 200 beneficiaries in the South-West, coveringYaba, Surulere and Ijebu-Ode, would be exposed to skills incosmetology, phone repairs, soap making and photography. Ukegbu also said that the commission would at the end of the trainingissue certificates and start-up allowances to the 2000 beneficiariesin the selected communities. A beneficiary, Phil Jimoh, expressed satisfaction at the commission’sinitiative, adding that the training would equip him with the skillsfor repairing phones, as well as the start-up grant. Jimoh said that he would be happy to start his phone repairs servicesin Nigeria, rather than exposing himself to dangers while trying to travelto Europe. Another beneficiary, Yusuf Mulikat also said that the training wouldenable her and others to realise the existing engagement opportunitiesfor them in Nigeria. Mulikat expressed optimism that the training would wipe tears from thefaces of many other returnees and persons of concern that had gonethrough harrowing experiences.(NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.