The Nigerian Army said it arrested no fewer than 24 suspects in
connection with electoral offences during the Saturday Governorship and
House Assembly elections in Imo, Abia and Cross River. Giving a breakdown of the suspects in a statement on Tuesday, Col. Sagir Musa, the army spokesman said 15 were arrested in Abia. Musa said of the 15 suspects, five were political thugs, arrested at
Lokpanta while on their way to disrupt election at Lekwesi community. The army spokesman said camouflage trousers, daggers and assorted charms were recovered from them. He said the other six suspects were arrested at Osisioma junction
while they were conveying already thumb printed ballot papers in a
vehicle. “On questioning, he-Enwereji, claimed the ballot papers were specimens for campaign,’’ he said. According to Musa, investigation is on to ascertain the culpability of the suspects. Still in Abia, Musa said troops also rescued an INEC staff abducted by hoodlums at Ohafia Technical College in Anna village. He said that four suspects were arrested in connection with the case
while efforts were on to apprehend other fleeing members of the gang. Musa said that the four suspects had been handed over to the police for further action. In Imo, the army spokesman said four suspected fake soldiers in
military uniform (woodland camouflage were nabbed around Everyday Super
Market in Owerri. He said the suspects were “escorting a prominent female politician in a political party vehicle’’ at the time of arrest. Musa said troops also intercepted and arrested suspected ballot box
snatchers at Airforce junction near Ngor Okpala Local Government Area of
Imo during the election. He said that on sighting the troops, the suspects abandoned their vehicle and ran into the bush. “Items recovered include one Sienna bus, one pump action gun with 11
live cartridge, voter cards and assorted ATMs bearing different names.’’ Musa said in Cross River, troops on patrol around power plant
substation, Odukpani Local Government Area, rescued one Mr Authur Nkama,
kidnapped at Ikot Ansa in Calabar Municipal Area Council. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.