The U. S. has congratulated Nigeria on its successful presidential election and President Muhammadu Buhari on his re-election. U.S. Secretary of State Michael Pompeo, in a statement, noted the
assessments of international and domestic observer missions affirming
the overall credibility of the election. Pompeo said the United States’ assessment was  “in spite of  localised violence and irregularities”. He called on all Nigerians to ensure successful Gubernatorial and House of Assembly elections on March 9. Pompeo said: “The United States congratulates the people of Nigeria
on a successful presidential election, and President Muhammadu Buhari on
his re-election. “We commend all those Nigerians who participated peacefully in the
election and condemn those whose acts of violence harmed Nigerians and
the electoral process. “We note the assessments of international and domestic observer
missions affirming the overall credibility of the election, despite
localised violence and irregularities. “We also congratulate all the other candidates for their peaceful participation in the electoral process. “We call on all Nigerians to ensure successful state elections next week. “Going forward, the United States remains committed to working
together with Nigeria to achieve greater peace and prosperity for both
our nations”. The presidential election, held on February 23 saw Buhari poll
15,191,847 votes and his closest challenger, People’s Democratic Party’s
candidate and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar polled 11,255,978
votes to emerge a runner-up. Buhari, who was declared re-elected by the Independent National
Electoral Commission, also won in 19 states, to defeat other 72
candidates including Atiku, who  won 17 states and the Federal Capital
Territory, to occupy the second position. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.