Farmers across the country have called on government to curb the
activities of middlemen, describing them as agents of food insecurity,
exploitative and parasites. The farmers told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Tuesday
that there were enough evidences to prove that the middle men exploited
them and eroded their profits, which hampers government efforts for
agricultural development. The farmers called for quick intervention of government to get relief
from middlemen, describing the middlemen as the menace that continued
to deprive the farmers of their dividend in spite of numerous efforts to
make ends meet. They observed that their vulnerability to middleman was due to
several factors, which include distance from market, high cost of
transportation and lack of credit. Others are lack of insurance and storage facilities, which they
claimed compelled farmers to respond to the dictates of the middlemen to
make immediate sale at below the cost price. Mallam Alli Kano, a rice farmer in Kura, Kano State, noted that
government and other concerned agencies needed to act fast because the
activities of middlemen were chasing many farmers away from farms. He said that the assertion of middlemen on the farmers to dictate and
raise prices for consumers usually led to high production costs in
their efforts to boost production but hardly got fair pricing of their
products from the middlemen. Kano said that the real profit went to the middlemen who bought up
the farm products at almost give-away prices and sold at outrageous
prices to the consumers. “This attitude of middlemen have discouraged genuine investors from
getting into agriculture because of the marginal profit associated with
it the business as cart away the bulk of the profits. “Thus, the activities of middlemen seem to be a threat to food
security as their activities in all areas where they operate are
indications that they stand in the way of food security, progress in
farming and self-sufficiency. “Globally middlemen stand in the way of food security and poverty
alleviation but government must take a drastic measure to fight them,’’
he said. Mallam Suraji Illiyasu, a cotton farmer in Gombe said that the
activities of the middlemen were one of the contributing factors to
cotton rejection in the international markets. He said that to get rid of the illegal activities could take awhile
because most of the farmers were illiterate, but with the advent of
educated youth farmers and technological innovations, the youth farmers
would change the status and would soon render them inactive. Illiyasu said that government should take a stringent measure to curb
their activities and make effort to reintroduce the commodity boards as
a way to bring the producer closer to the end buyer and make farmers
get adequate dividend for their efforts. He said that the middlemen were also the fundamental cause of food
inflation because they usually hoard both perishable and non-perishable
commodities, thereby creating artificial shortages across all food
categories to dictate the prices of such commodities later. “Most of them always dictate the price of food items thereby chasing
away credible customers and also they usually intentionally created
artificial scarcity.’’ Mrs Theresa Agbowuro, a Cassava farmer in Aisegba Ekiti, described
the middlemen as opportunists that usually reaped where they did not sow
and reaped the benefits by rising food prices. She called on the three tiers of government to take immediate action
to curb the activities of the middlemen, saying that most of the farmers
who ignored the middlemen always ran into problem and lost their
produce. Agbowuro said in most cases, a lot of the affected farmers always
paid dearly for their actions as they always found it very difficult to
sell their produce. Mallam Awalu Kabai, a farmer in Auta-Balefi, Nassarawa state said
that middlemen had intercepted most of the Federal Government’s
agricultural schemes making it unattractive to the beneficiaries. He said that the activities of some of the middlemen were  militating
against some of government’s schemes such as FADAMA, CBN/Anchor
Borrowers Programme and Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk-Sharing System for
Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) and they also cut across all agricultural
sectors. Kabai said that in the areas of government schemes most of these
middlemen posed as political farmers or cooperative heads with the
intent to defraud the farmers. “NIRSAL sometime ago confirmed that it has information that some
“aggregators” have fraudulently collected monies from farmers promising
to deliver loan facilities through the CBN/ABP and other NIRSAL funding
windows. “In most cases, the activities of the middlemen and farmers usually
lead to crisis leading to untold losses and hardship on the farmers,’’
he said. Kabai said that if government did not go into action on time to check
the activities of fraudulent middlemen in the agric loan sector, it
could crumble the good intention of government. “Because their huge demand is frustrating some of the peasant farmers to abandon the projects,’’ he said. Mrs Bisi Adeshida, a farmer in Ogbese, Ondo State said that the
middlemen were in all areas of agriculture, “be it the financial sector,
government schemes for agriculture and commodity venues, they have
invaded both the yam, rice, ram, poultry and palm oil sector of
agriculture.’’ She said that because government at all levels had allowed them free
hand to operate and even hijacked most of their programmes, they thrived
because they always encountered less resistance. Adeshida said that during the festive time, “it is the middlemen that
always dictate the prices of domestic animals for sale and any of the
traders that flaunted the law will pay for it.’’ Mr Pious Akinlade, a FADAMA beneficiary in Kogi state said that to
create a competitive market, government must intervene and curb the
activities of the middlemen. “Something urgent must be done; farmers cannot be labouring for middlemen to reap the gains. “There are times when they invade the markets and  their wishes
become law and any farmers that flaunted the law will be made to lose
his/her produce.’’ He said that lack of many socio amenities was also encouraging the activities of middlemen. Akinlade said that because of the high cost, transport and bad roads,
farmers were always forced to sell their produce at the farm gate to
middlemen who acted as commissioners on behalf of wholesalers. Mrs Veronica Ezumezu, a trader in Masaka market noted that the
middleman had made the cost of food beyond the reach of the peasant
traders and the common man. She said that before, the small traders used to negotiate the price
of produce freely with the farmers at the farm gate but now such traders
must negotiate with the middlemen. “Staple crops like maize, millet, cassava, beans, yam, cassava,
plantain and vegetables are very cheap right from the farm but once the
middlemen are involved, they will introduced various taxes or buy the
produce at the farm gate, forcing the traders to buy from them. “In the end, such will lead to increase in the price of food stuffs and vegetables in the markets,” she said. Ezumezu lamented that the middleman had turned themselves to tyranny
at farm gates in most markets on all produce and in the end they paid
peanuts to farmers. He lamented that compensation was not enough to meet other basic
needs as farmers continued to wallow in poverty, while some would
struggle to repay their loans because of the middlemen phenomena. Mr Sanjo Fasunla, an agricultural expert described the middlemen as
an impediment to farmers and the renewed determination by government to
empower agriculturists for improved productivity and attainment of food
security in the country. He said that the middlemen had become monopoly buyers of agricultural produce to the deteriment of the farmers. Fasunla said that government and relevant agencies needed to act fast
because the activities of the middlemen were discouraging the
investors. “This is having a terrible implication in the supply value chain of agricultural products.’’ (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.