Sen.Obinna Ogba ( PDP-Ebonyi Central) has bemoaned the burning of the INEC- Registration Area Centre (RAC) in Ezza North LGA of the state, describing it as `unfortunate’. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the suspected hoodlums  burnt the INEC RAC at Okposi-Umuoghara in Ezza North LGA and also destroyed several INEC materials in the area. Ogba told newsmen in his hometown, Nkalagu in Ishiellu LGA of the state that he was pained by the development as the area fell within the senatorial district he represented. “Ebonyi should not be associated with this type of situation as the perpetrators and their sponsors intend to cause crisis in the area for elections to be cancelled. “They did not campaign like the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) but plan that the elections be cancelled in order to prosecute the re-conducted elections with the aid of security agencies,” he said. The Senate Committee Chairman on Sports noted that the people were however, more exposed presently and would resist any attempt to truncate the electoral process. “The incident will only affect about three wards as the elections can still be conducted in other wards in the area. “Security agencies should be blamed for negligence in the incident because they were supposed to be guarding INEC facilities. “The hoodlums could not have gained access to the facility if security agencies lived up to their responsibilities,” he said. He attributed the low turnout of voters recorded in the area to the people’s disenchantment that their votes did not count. “Most PDP supporters are still angry that their presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar was not declared winner of the Feb.23 polll when they are sure that he actually won,” he said. Mr Henry Eze, Chairman of Ishiellu LGA decried the low presence of security agents in most polling units in the area Eze, who voted at the Amokwe-Umuhuali polling unit of Ishiellu LGA, noted that the development had been reported to relevant quarters and was expecting prompt action to be taken. “You can see that the PDP does not have any opposition in the area as the people are still expected to turn out en masse to exercise their franchise. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA