The  absence of prosecution’s witness on Monday stalled the trial
of  former Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Sunday Ehindero and former
Commissioner of Police, John Obaniyi,  in an  FCT High Court in Apo. Ehindero is standing trial alongside a former Commissioner of Police
in charge of Budget at the Force Headquarters, John Obaniyi, over  an
alleged  N16.4 million fraud. The Independent  Corruption  Practices and Other Related Offences
Commission(ICPC), counsel, Mr Golden Iwuagwu informed the court that his
witness was ill and could not make it to court. He further asked for an adjournment since the matter will not go on. Counsel for the first and second defendants , Kehinde Amaro (holding
brief for Dr Alex Izinyon SAN) and Samuel Odariko did not oppose the
application respectively. Justice Sylvanus Oriji, adjourned the case until March 21, for continuation of hearing. NAN reports that the defendants were arraigned on a 10-count charge
bothering on conspiracy, fraud and making false statement before Justice
Oriji. The ICPC alleged the defendants committed the offence between May 2006 and November 2006. The ICPC alleged that the defendants conspired and used their
positions to pay N500 million in two fixed deposit accounts with Wema
Bank and Intercontinental Bank from the N557. 9 donated by the Bayelsa
Government to the Nigeria Police for purchase of arms and ammunition. The N500 million placed in fixed deposits, the anti-corruption commission, alleged yielded an interest of N16, 412, 315.06. The prosecution stated that the alleged offence contravened the provisions of sections 26(1) and 22(5) of the ICPC Act, 2000. NAN reports that on March 8, the second prosecution witness (PW2),
Olayinka Adebayo, who is an ICPC investigator, told the court that the
former IGP in his statement, said the proceeds from the interest
generated on the fixed deposit was spent for operational purposes. The witness stated this while being cross examined by Izinyon, adding
that the commission was, however, unable to confirm this in the course
of investigation. While being cross examined by counsel for Obaniyi,  Odariko, the
witness stated that the money donated by the Bayelsa State government
was meant specifically for providing support for the operational
activities of the state police command. Adebayo told the court that as a signatory to the IGP account with
First Bank, the second defendant was privy to the operation of the
account. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.