The Federal Government will continue to prioritise health
expenditures in spite of the dwindling revenue, Minister of Budget and
National Planning, Udoma Udo Udoma, said on Tuesday. Udoma made the assertion at a workshop on the Nigeria Value for Money in the Health Sector in Abuja. The minister also said that government was working to improve the
country’s mortality rate, which was among the lowest in the continent. According to him, the constrained fiscal space occasioned by drop in
oil price and disruption to crude production continues to reflect on
revenues. “The present administration came to meet a very constrained fiscal
space. Revenue dropped from N10.07 trillion in 2014 fiscal year to as
low as N5.68 trillion in 2016. “Though, it recovered somewhat to N7.17 trillion and N9.17 trillion
in 2017 and 2018, it is still low compared to the amount in 2014,” he
said. Udoma also said that dwindling donor funding had further compounded
the matters with the country transition from the status of a poor
country to a developing economy. He said that notwithstanding the government’s tight revenue inflow, there was need to increase expenditure in the health sector. The minister said that governments at all levels need to come together to maximise value for allocation to the sector. Also, Mr Ben Akabueze, the Director-General, Budget Office of the
Federation, said that the Federal Government had earmarked the sum of
N43.5 billion for routine immunisation programmes in 2019. Akabueze said that there was need to upscale allocation to the
primary healthcare, calling for equity in the allocation of funds to
different areas in the sector. The director-general explained that because Nigeria was operating a
deficit budget, it had become very difficult for it to further borrow to
fund projects in the health sector. According to him, this has placed a limitation on how much we can borrow. Akabueze said, to turn the tide around, the country must seek ways to
attract other sources of funding, especially private investments to the
health sector. (NAN) Innocent Korie is an ICT and Project Management Professional with very good flair in  business development,  and Online media management.