The Nigerian Educational Research Development Council (NERDC) in  partnership with Public Private Development Council (PPDC) and Google is  set to harmonise and review the safety measures of online curriculum in  primary and secondary schools. The partners converge in Mararaba, Abuja, on Tuesday at the “Writing
Workshop for the Development of Online Safety Curriculum for Nigerian
Schools”. Prof. Ismail Junaidu, the Executive Secretary, NERDC, said the
workshop would develop a curriculum to safeguard the youths who were not
clearly used to the internet. He said forming alliance with individuals and groups would help map
out strategies to educate the Nigerian child about online safety. “An online safety module within our national secondary school
curriculum has become imperative to promote digital literacy, digital
safety and responsibility while reducing disinformation among young
people. “Let me inform you that one fundamental factor that enhances the
provision of quality services to the citizens of a nation is the
willingness of key government functionaries and agencies to form
alliance with individuals and groups. “This is especially with the Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) in
the initiation, delivery and management of programmes and projects. “One common interest that has driven and sustained the partnership is
the desire to ensure safe and responsible use of the internet among
young internet users as they explore, maximise and utilise all the
benefits the internet offers. “It is thus our responsibility, as a foremost education agency of the
Federal Government of Nigeria to provide safety guides for our youths
who are not only very passionate in the use of the internet, but also
very much naive and ignorant of its ills and dangers. Also, Mrs Nkemdilim Ilo, Director, PPDC, said that technology had
taken over the space, hence the need to promote our culture and prevent
the children from being endangered by the ills of internet. Ilo said that the integration of online safety into school curriculum
would provide school children with the useful knowledge of internet. The workshop was the second aimed at developing a standalone online
safety module for integration of online safety into secondary school
curriculum. The workshop would review the online curriculum conceptual framework
as well as identify content, develop curriculum topics and performance
objectives. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.