The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) says a media organisation’s headline on  its operational deployments for the March 9 governorship and State House  of Assembly elections was misleading. NAF’s Director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore
Ibikunle Daramola, made the disclosure in a statement on Friday in
Abuja. He said the headline “Air Force: Fighter Jets, Attack Helicopters on
Standby Against Election Violence” on the front page of a national
newspaper was misleading and misrepresented facts about the NAF
operational deployments for the governorship elections. “The headline was not only misleading but a misrepresentation of the
facts about the NAF operational deployments for the 2019 Gubernatorial
Elections.” According to him, NAF on March 6, issued a statement on its plans to
support the Nigeria Police in ensuring peaceful conduct of the
forthcoming Governorshio and States’ House of Assembly Elections on
March 9. “The statement highlighted that the CAS directed AOCs and field
commanders to ensure safety of lives and properties in their various
locations in addition to the deployment of NAF aircraft, including
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) platforms. “The NAF ISR platforms and light utility helicopters are deployed to
provide surveillance over potential flash points across the country to
ensure peaceful conduct of elections. “NAF fighter aircraft and attack helicopters are currently deployed
to areas where NAF is involved in anti-banditry and
counter-terrorism/counter-insurgency operations. “For instance, today, March 8, 2019, the Air Task Force of Operation
LAFIYA DOLE carried out an air interdiction mission against a
terrorists’ hideout on the fringes of Lake Chad in Northern part of
Borno State,” Daramola said. He said that NAF, as a professional fighting force, would continue to
operate within the ambit of its constitutional role of defending the
territorial integrity of the country and protecting the rights and
liberties of all Nigerians. The statement urged all eligible voters to come out to vote for the candidates of their choice as their security was assured. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.