An FCT High Court in Gudu, on Monday, adjourned until May 8, hearing
in a law suit instituted against Diamond Bank Plc for N100 million in
damages over alleged negligence. Justice Abba-Bello Mohammed adjourned the case after listening to the arguments of both the claimant and defence counsel. The claimant, Mr Isaac Dare, had instituted the suit seeking the
court to declare that the defendant, Diamond Bank, breached the duty of
care by losing his Certificate of Occupancy with the No.11/12/2013. Dare in his affidavit supporting the motion also prayed the court to
award him N100 million as general damages for the loss and injury
suffered on account of the negligence of the bank. The claimant’s counsel, Mr Emmanuel Adedeji asked the court for a
summary judgment following the failure of the defendant to respond to
the processes served on them since February. However, Mr Onwuchekwu Onwuchekwu, the defence counsel told the court
that the failure to respond on time was due to the fact that the
processes were not served at the bank’s headquarters in Lagos. “We had expected them to serve us in Lagos for us to be able to respond immediately,’’ Onwuchekwu said. He also said that the hearing notice for the case was filed on
Thursday, March 14, and his office was briefed on Friday to appear in
court. Onwuchekwu had prayed the court to allow him  respond on point of law
after the judge had overruled their request for a short adjournment and
said the case must continue. Consequently, Justice Abba-Bello, who said both parties were entitled
to fair hearing, which is constitutional, agreed that the defence
should reply orally on point of law. In his argument, the defence said that what the claimant was asking
for was general damage which was not “something to be asked under
summary judgment procedure. Justice Abba-Bello in his ruling stated that the claim was not
recognisable under summary judgment procedure, the claimant having asked
for damages and declaration of right. He therefore dismissed the client’s application for summary judgment and adjourned the matter until May 8 for hearing. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.