The Nigeria Army has warned its personnel against unlawful involvement in Saturday’s supplementary elections in some states in the country. Maj.-Gen. Hakeem Otiki, General Officer Commanding (GOC), 8 Division of the Nigerian Army, Sokoto, gave the warning while taking over command of the Division on Wednesday. He said that permission and clearance from army headquarters was mandatory for any officer and soldier to be on election duty. Otiki insisted that the “reputable image’’ of the military must be preserved as their duties were clearly stipulated in the nation’s Constitution, adding that personnel were, therefore, to ensure that army’s integrity was maintain at all cost. “You must not get involved in elections without permission; no officer should lead men to any polling unit without clearance from the headquarters. “Image of the military must not be brought down; any person found in uniform in the town must have been directed from the higher authority. “Any officer found directing men without permission will be checked and when investigated and found wanting, such officer’s name will be forwarded to Abuja,” he said. He charged the officers to be disciplined, saying that discipline was bedrock of achieving success in all aspects of life. The GOC noted that his predecessor made developments in infrastructure and services in the Division and assured that he would continue with good works. He explained that current “Operation Sharan Daji’’ in Zamfara would not be extended to Sokoto and urged personnel to ensure maximum discipline in their duties. “We are here to keep others asleep while we are awake, so, the best miracle of our success is maximum discipline. “We are here to leave marks; young officers should emulate senior ones on dedication to duty and commitment” said. In his speech, outgoing GOC, Maj.-Gen. Stevenson Olabanji, commended officers and men of the division for their cooperation with him and solicited same for his successor. He advised him not to do anything that would compromise discipline which, the army was known for. (NAN) Innocent Korie is an ICT and Project Management Professional with very good flair in  business development,  and Online media management.