Sen. Smart Adeyemi, Miss Natasha Akpoti and Sen. Ahmed Ogembe have filed petitions against the conduct and outcome of the National Assembly election held in Kogi on Feb.23. The Secretary of the Kogi State Election Petition Tribunal, Mrs Aisha Mana, confirmed this to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Lokoja. Mana said that the petitions filed by Adeyemi, Akpoti and Ogembe’s petitions were among the 10 received by the tribunal by aggrieved candidates who participated in the election. NAN reports that Adeyemi contested on the platform of APC, Akpoti, SDP and Ogembe, PDP in the election. Adeyemi, a two term Senator lost to his closest rival, Sen. Dino Melaye in Kogi West senatorial district, Natasha and Ogembe contested and lost the senatorial election in Kogi Central to Mr Yakubu Oseni of APC. Others who have filed their petitions at the tribunal include, according to Mana are: Mrs Habiba Muhammed Deen of PDP who lost the Ankpa-Omala-Olamaboro Federal Constituency election to Mr Abdulahi Ibrahim of APC. Mr Emmanuel Egwu also of PDP lost the Idah-Ibaji-Igalamela Federal Constituency election to Mr David Zacharis of APC. Other petitioners are: Mr Abimbola Henry Tuesday of APC lost the Yagba Federal Constituency election to Mr Leke Abejide of SDP. Mr Onimisi Itopa of PDP, who lost the Okene-Ogori Magongo Federal Constituency election to Mr Bello Joseph Asuku of APC. Mr Wemi Jones Ojo of the APC, who is challenging the election of Mr Tajudeen Yusuf of PDP who is the Representative-elect for Kabba/Bunu/Ijumu Federal Constituency. Also,Mr Ibrahim Shaba Isah of PDP is also contesting the election of Mr Abdulkareem Wambai of APC as the Representative-elect for the Lokoja-Kogi Federal Constituency seat. Mr Lawal Idrissu of the PDP,who is protesting the election of the APC candidate for the Ajaokuta Federal Constituency. No date has been fixed for the hearing of the petitions (NAN). Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.