The police have taken a number of measure to enhance security during the governorship and state house of assembly elections, including the ban on concealment of vehicle number plates by all unauthorised vehicle users. The Acting Inspector-General of Police, Mr Mohammed Adamu, placed the ban, Force Public Relations Officer, Mr Frank Mba, said on Tuesday that the proscription was with immediate effect. He said the police gave the order following intelligence report that the unwholesome practice may be deployed by some unscrupulous persons to commit electoral related offences before, during and after the governorship and house of assembly elections holding on Saturday. Apart from the possible threats to the polls, the IGP also noted that the covering of vehicle number plate was a clear breach of the Road Traffic Act and other relevant laws of the land. He added that it could impact negatively on national security and safety, as well as has the capacity to heighten criminal activities and engender an atmosphere of lawlessness. Adamu explained that using covered plate numbers could shield perpetrators of crime and place unnecessary pressure on security agencies in their routine crime prevention and monitoring tasks. He, therefore, directed all Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs) and Commissioners of Police (CPs) and state commands to strictly enforce the restriction order at their various Areas of Responsibilities (AOR). The police boss also asked the AIGs and CPs to ensure that all defaulters were dealt with according to the law. He warned that any security personnel found escorting their principal with an unmarked vehicle or those with masked vehicle number plates would be arrested and dealt with accordingly. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari, on Tuesday met with security chiefs in Abuja. The Minister of Defence, Mansur Dan Ali, led the security chiefs to the meeting which held behind closed doors at the Presidential Villa. The acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, briefed State House correspondents at the end of the meeting. He said security arrangements have been enhanced ahead of the governorship and state house of assembly elections scheduled to hold on Saturday. The police boss thanked Nigerians for conducting themselves during the presidential and National Assembly elections, despite the pocket of violence in parts of the country. He warned hoodlums and ballot box snatchers to have a rethink ahead of the polls, stressing that they would be severely dealt with. Adamu said he expected that election materials would not be tampered with and security personnel would not allow themselves to be compromised by anyone or group. 