The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) says it will collaborate
with Dolby Laboratory Inc. of the U.S. to  ensure adherence to audio
and sound technology standards in Nigeria. Mr Osita Aboloma, the Director-General of SON, was quoted as saying  this, in a statement by Mrs Mariam Samson, the Chief Protocol Relations  Officer of the organisation on Friday. Abuloma said this when some executives of the U.S. company visited him in Abuja. He said that the collaboration would help to curb the menace of counterfeiting of audio and sound products and materials. According to him, the collaboration will go a long way particularly
in view of the impending digital switch over programme for broadcasting
in Nigeria. The Leader of the Dolby team, Mrs. Vivian Vasallo, Senior Director,
Intellectual Property Protection and Enforcement, said the visit was in
furtherance of the company’s expansion of its presence in Africa. Vasallo added that the visit was also connected to the creation of
audio and voice technologies for cinemas and movies, home theatres,
personal computers, mobile devices, and games. The company according to her already has presence in South Africa and Kenya. Vassalo stated that the planned switch over from analogue to digital
broadcast band in Nigeria provided great opportunities in audio
investment. She noted that the danger of counterfeiting of audio and sound
technology materials was  also real, given the expansive nature of the
Nigerian market occasioned by its large population. The visit according to her, was to discuss mutually collaborative endeavours with SON  and other government institutions. Vassalo said the areas of collaboration would be on capacity
development and provision of tools to identify counterfeits and
infringements on audio and sound products, standardisation and
intellectual properties protection. Others, she said, were engaging the Federal Government Procurement
processes on provision of quality cable boxes for use in  digitisation
of broadcast bands She said the collaboration would also explore areas of support to SON
Staff in enforcement infractions of audio and sound technology
standards in Nigeria. Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA