The  Brotherhood of the Cross and Star (BCS) says it is partnering the Delta  government to organise Leadership and Entrepreneurial Skill Development  Summit for youth in the State. The Spokesman of BCS, Mr Edet Archibong disclosed this on Sunday during a press conference in Asaba. The BCS is a religious organisation, and was founded in 1956 by Leader Olumba Olumba Obu, in Calabar, Cross River. Archibong, who spoke on behalf of the spiritual head of BCS, Olumba
Obu, said 20 slots had been earmarked for youth in Delta in the summit. He said the program would be held on Sept. 20, adding that it would
covered areas like the positive use of the internet, online and digital
marketing among others. Archibong said that the summit tagged “Raising Leaders” was to
flag-off the 2019 Brotherhood All Youth Assembly (BAYA) slated for Sept.
20 and Sept. 22 in Asaba. The spokesman said that BAYA was inaugurated in 2012 adding Delta would be hosting the 7th edition of the convention. According to him, the theme of the BAYA 2019 is “Olumba is the true friend of the youth”. “BAYA is an umbrella body for all the youth organisation in the BCS worldwide. “This forum is a platform for reaching out to the youth and
inculcating in them the ideas of God and in so doing also have them
gainfully engaged. “An idle mind is the devil’s workshop. When the youth are gainfully
engaged in positive ventures, they will not become ready tools in the
hands of evil people and enemies of the society. “At least three youth from every state/nation will be empowered in
various vocations and skills while Delta will have 20 slots in the
entrepreneurial summit,” he said. Archibong said that the establishment of the BAYA had become very
important particularly at this period that the society was faced with
plethora of challenges. “The society is constantly plagued by collapse of religious and moral
values, deepening racial division, ethnic conflicts, alarming rate of
drug abuse, and frightening level of violence, cultism and sexual
immorality. “These has led to the falling of our youth from the path of salvation. “This convention is not just an event but the onset of a process that
will deliver both spiritual and economic empowerment for the youth in
the vicinity of Delta. And ultimately have them engaged in profitable
business ventures. “Entrepreneurial development on its part, will reduce unemployment
and generate wealth thereby creating a positive social impact in the
society,” he said. Archibong advised those in leadership positions to always have the fear of God and use the nation’s resources judiciously.I Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA