The
National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has condemned in strong terms the
recent killings of young ladies in hotels in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, and
other parts of the country calling on the Rivers State Police Command to
intensify efforts to stem the tide and apprehend all those involved in the
dastardly act. In
statement in Abuja Wednesday, the Executive Secretary of the Commission, Tony
Ojukwu Esq. noted that recent complaints of several attacks on women in hotels
alleged to be prostitutes received by the Commission is worrisome. He
stated that extermination of right to life is the mother of all human rights
violations and cannot be tolerated by any decent society. Ojukwu lamented that at
this stage of our development, some people still take laws into their hands by
targeting women they term as prostitutes and killing them at will. The
visibly angry Ojukwu stated that human life is sacred and the conditions under
which human life can be taken are clearly stated under the Constitution of the
Federal Republic of Nigeria and other International Human Rights Instruments which
Nigeria is a party. All these instruments prohibit the violation of right to
life and other forms of extra-judicial killings. Ojukwu
commended the efforts of the Nigerian Police so far in apprehending some of the
violators saying that the Commission is worried over these unfortunate incidents
and is requesting every member of the public who has information to bring this
to the attention of the Police or the Commission in order to put an end to
these incidents and forestall future occurrences. He
stated that the Commission will monitor all alleged cases of violation of the
right to life and will work with the Police to ensure that the culprits are
brought to book. Lambert
Oparah Director
Corporate Affairs & External Linkages, NHRC. Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA