Amb. Tijani Muhammad-Bande, President of  the 74th session of the UN General Assembly, was among several Muslims  that attended a special church service in New York on Monday evening. The prayer service, hosted by the Church
of the Holy Family, United Nations Parish, is an annual tradition of the
UN to usher in every new session of the Assembly. Monday’s edition came shortly after the
President of the 73rd UNGA, Ms Maria Espinosa, handed over to
Muhammad-Bande at the UN headquarters a few meters away. Other Muslims at the service included
presidential spokesman, Mr Garba Shehu; former Chairman of INEC, Prof,
Attahiru Jega, and officials of Nigerian missions to the UN and the
United States. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres;
the Deputy Secretary General, Ms Amina Mohammed, also a Muslim, and
Espinosa, equally attended the service. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports
that speakers at the occasion underscored the significance of the
composition of the gathering to religious tolerance and harmony. In his address, Guterres said “our
presence here sends an important message” at a time of “widespread
polarisation and horrific violence targeting people solely for their
(religious) identity”. “We are recognising our human connections and reaffirming respect for each other’s religions, cultures and traditions”, he said. Speaking later, Muhammad-Bande said the
service was a reminder of the “place of faith and the role that empathy
and love can in agreeing when we want to disagree”. He urged all those present to recommit
themselves to God and seek His intervention while also doing their best
to address the challenges facing the world. The Apostolic Vicar of Southern Arabia, Bishop Paul Hinder, spoke in similar vein in a sermon. Hinder called on Muslims, Christians and
adherents of other religions to unite and find a common cause in the
fight against religious violence and extremism. The service featured special prayers for
the UN and its leaders, for lasting peace in war-torn regions and for a
“globalisation of solidarity” against hunger hunger, poverty, disease,
among others.(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA