The Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) on Thursday, unveiled its National Border Strategy 2019 to enhance national security. Comptroller-General of the Service, Mr Muhammad Babandede presented
the document in Abuja with stakeholders in the sector in attendance. The project was funded by  the European Union (EU) and implemented by the International  Organisation for Migration (IOM). He said that the strategy would also help in contributing to national
economic development, reinforcing social harmony and ensuring migrants’
human rights and the protection of vulnerable migrants. “The NIS National Boarder Management Strategy (NBMS) 2019 to 2023
articulates a renewed five-year vision and institutional approach to
border management in Nigeria. “This is within the scope of the Nigeria Immigration Service,” Babandede said. Babandede explained that when the borders were safe, it would result into a safe nation. “So the document has addressed the issue of national security, border security and addressed border as a means of trade. “It will ensure transparency; it will reduce corruption, it will help
to ensure that human rights are protected and we will ensure that
smugglers and traffickers are not allowed to leave or enter our
country.” House Committee Chairman on Interior, Mr Nasir Daura, said that the
committee would ensure that the NIS was given the necessary support to
ensure smooth implementation of the policy. He said the document would help to provide the requisite protection that could ensure the respect and dignity of human rights. “As a committee, we will make the Nigeria Immigration Service more
effective by providing the necessary budgetary support to better manage
the borders.” In her remark, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs
Zainab Ahmed, said that the effective implementation of the strategy
depended on dynamic institutional framework and robust political
backing. Ahmed was represented by a staff of the project office (migration) Mr Ekom Umoren. She said that the surge in transnational crimes, irregular migration,
trafficking and other illicit activities would be tackled in line with
national development goals as contained in the Economic Recovery and
Growth Plan. Mr Basheer Mohammed, Federal Commissioner, National Commission for
Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons, was also present at
the meeting. Mohammed, who was represented by Charles Anaelo, said that the
document was a clear demonstration of Nigeria’s commitment to entrench
international best practices in border management through a coordinated
approach. He said that effective and efficient border management contributed immensely to overall migration management. “We have no doubt that implementation will be all inclusive and coordinated to ensure coherence.” Ms Ukamaka Osigwe, IOM Nigeria National Programme Officer, said that
the document was developed through an intensive NIS and inter-agency
consultations which spanned from Oct. 2018 to March. She said that the rationale behind the development of the strategy was to articulate a better border management in Nigeria. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.