As part of settling down to drive industry,  trade and investment in Nigeria, the Director General, Standards  Organisation of Nigeria, Osita Aboloma Esq. has briefed the two  Ministers of the Federal Ministry of Industry, trade and Investment,  Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo and Ambassador Maryam Katagum on the recent  achievements and challenges of SON. Aboloma congratulated the Ministers on their appointment and prayed for their tenure to be successful and impactful. He enumerated SON recent achievements as including a robust
development process for market-driven standards as well as championing
the harmonisation of standards within the West African Region and the
Continent to promote seamless trading across borders. Others according to him include near completion of an ultra-modern
laboratory complex in Lagos as well as a National Metrology Institute in
addition to an existing Engineering Laboratory at Enugu and a Textile
and Leather Laboratory located in Kaduna as part of the development of
the National Quality Infrastructure. Aboloma appraised the Ministers on the Mandatory Conformity
Assessment program (MANCAP) for certification of locally manufactured
products and the offshore Conformity Assessment program (SONCAP) for
imported products as part of measures to promote the competitiveness of
made in Nigeria and protect the Nation from imported substandard and
life-endangering products. According to him, the recent revalidation of international
accreditation of the SON Food Technology Laboratories for biological and
chemical testing with increased scope of parameters are aimed at
supporting the economic diversification agenda of the Federal Government
and timely for the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade
agreement. Other areas pointed out to the Ministers include: The DG disclosed that SON has streamlined its processes to facilitate
the ease of doing business in compliance with the Presidential
Executive Order stressing that it has a close working relationship with
the Ease of Business Environment Secretariat (EBES). Aboloma also enumerated the organization’s major challenges as
including its absence from the seaports to undertake quality
verification and prevent the influx of substandard and life threatening
products, funding for the completion and equipping of the National
Metrology Institute in Enugu and improved staffing to strengthen the 42
State and 6 Regional Offices for greater reach and effectiveness. He urged the Ministers to prevail on Agencies and parastatals under
the Ministry to patronize the SON internationally accredited Management
Systems Certification Services to serve as good examples to other
Ministries, Departments and Agencies in compliance with the service wide
circular from the Secretary to Government. This according to him is in
order to promote the local content policy and save scarce foreign
exchange expended in procuring similar services from abroad. The SON Chief Executive also requested the Ministers to escalate the
draft Nigerian National Quality Policy to the Federal Executive Council
for consideration and approval to provide the necessary guide for the
development and rationalization of the National Quality Infrastructure
in view of the impending implementation of the African Continental free
Trade Agreement. Responding Otunba Niyi Adebayo and Ambassador Maryam Katagum, Hon.  Minister and Minister of State respectively commended the SON Management  and assured it of the Ministry’s unflinching support for all its  agencies and departments towards achieving their mandates and  effectively contributing to the Economic Recovery Growth Plan (ERGP) of  the government. SON Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA