The Federal Government has developed a scorecard for the ranking of
websites of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), to help in
rebranding  public service. According to the News Agency of  Nigeria (NAN) The Director General, Bureau of Public Service Reforms (BPSR), Engr.  Dasuki Arabi, made the disclosure in an interview in Abuja. Arabi said that the main objective of the ranking was to open
government to the citizens by providing information going by the
evolution and current trend of information dissemination worldwide. He said the idea was in line with the Executive Order on “Ease of
Doing Business” and Open Government Partnership commitment of  the
Muhammadu Buhari administration. “The media system is changing; websites are becoming very important  and they have taken over what we do manually as the link of mam-to-man  is being cut off. “If you are looking for anything now, just go to the website. We need  to encourage our website administrators to work and that is why the  scorecard came on board. “Basically, the Bureau of Public Service Reforms (BPSR) was created  in 2004 to serve as engine room for reforms at the federal level and as I  said, we monitor, we initiate, we inform and we also evaluate reform  activities in every facet of government at the federal level,” Arabi  said. According to him, the reform and rebranding process in the public
service will be holistic as it will affect different areas of
governance. He said BPSR was already working with the Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON) to lead the rebranding process. “We are working with Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria  (APCON) to lead the rebranding process again and the rebranding we are  looking at is not only looking at information management but rebranding  the entire service. “We report to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF)  and we have a steering committee on reforms that is chaired by the SGF  and deputised by the Head of Civil Service of the Federation. “Permanent Secretaries of key agencies of government, including the  chairman, Federal Civil Service Commission, National Assembly Service  Commission and the National Judicial Service Commission (are members) so  that other arms of government could be carried along in this process. “We are talking about Public Service, not Civil Service reforms,” he added. Arabi said BSPR had been positioned with key values of integrity,
leadership, external awareness, result driven and creativity to ensure
it achieved a good system within any government establishment. He said the Federal Executive Council (FEC) had received a working
document on National Strategy on Public Service Reforms for approval to
help give direction to the rebranding process. “We hope to make the best use of technology available to us to drive
awareness, inform Nigerians and improve on patriotism if there is any,
if there is none, then, we encourage that. “Before BPSR came on board, there were pockets of reforms in various  sectors of government and one of the reasons we came was to put all  these things together to have a one-stop-shop for everything about  reforms. “When we came, we developed a document on National Strategy on Public  Service Reforms which is a coordinating document to put together all  aspect around reforms in every sector of government. “The document came on board since 2007 and we are glad to say that  more than 75 per cent of the aspirations of the Public Service Reforms  have been implemented, though it has not been passed by the Federal  Executive Council (FEC), we are glad to inform you that the SGF has  approved its adoption. “It has gone to the cabinet secretariat and we hope that the next  sitting of the current cabinet will see it approved; but weather it is  approved or not approved, it is a working document and Nigerians need to  know that we have this,”  Arabi said. 