United States of America on Aug. 23, released the names of 80  Nigerians involved in cybercrimes. They were identified after three  years of painstaking investigations by the Federal Bureau of  Investigation (FBI). Most of the names on the list, were youths, enmeshed in internet fraud and money laundering related activities. Dr Ego Ugboju, a public affairs analyst,  expressed worry at the
development, and stressed that something urgent must be done to stop
Nigerian youths from drifting. Ugboju said that to the most of the youths, cybercrime, drug
trafficking were  no crimes, noting that credit card fraud, wire
transfer scams, advance fee fraud, marriage scams were all seen as
hustles and adventure. “Majority of the young men coming out of my village want to head to
South Africa, Malaysia and Thailand. Before now, they wanted to go to
Onitsha and Aba to learn a trade once they dropped out of school. “These days, every school dropout, including university graduates are all heading same dangerous direction.’’ Ugboju said those who could not go straight to Asia, were now moving to West African countries in search of sudden wealth. He said that those who could not move outside the country, now
engaged in playing ‘Bet9ja,’a sport betting, placing bets on premiership
leagues, this he said was borne out of pure craze for quick wealth. Ugboju also alleged that some parents even dispose-off their landed
property to sponsor their children abroad not to study, but to make
quick money. Sen. Babafemi Ojudu, Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on
Political Matters, observed that all the crimes of today have their
roots in the past. According to him, be it human trafficking, drug peddling, scamming,
known as 419, robbery, corruption and embezzlement in public office, all
have their roots in the past. “You will be surprised to read of the names of big families who their
progenitors made their money through these despicable ventures.’’ Mr Chinemerem Onwuleri, a legal practitioner, said that the get rich quick via cybercrime, should be addressed promptly. According to him, it is a predominantly indoor crime that no one sees
happening in the open, and thus gives society the semblance of
normalcy, given that culprits only emerge to “spend proceeds”. Onwuleri called on community leaders, leaders of thought and other
stakeholders to act and arrest the ugly development before it
degenerated further and the country’s image damaged irreparable. “Now that the tipping point has been reached and arguably `passed,’ I
hope communities can act before it is too late,” he stated. Sam Dancolf, a businessman, condemned the trending nature of get rich quick at all cost. He said that it was abnormal for the youths not to see the heinous act as crime. “Our moral fabric is not just torn, we had long set it ablaze, we are
left with the good for nothing ashes of immorality, it would take us
real hard work at having an altered mind as a people and as a nation.’’ Mr Chukwu Orji, a political analyst, said that the driving force for
Nigerian youths to leave the country in search of greener pastures to
make quick money should be identified. He said that fussing about the symptoms and not the real cause will
only address the symptoms, noting that many citizens whose countries are
doing well do not travel out of their place. To him, many Nigerians, including skilled professionals of many years
of practice in the country, will desperately leave Nigeria if given the
opportunity. Orji said Nigerians should be worried more what was responsible for
not only cybercrime and drug trafficking, but other vices among the
youths. According to him, majority of Nigerians were forced to leave the country because of harsh economic conditions. To Orji, what should bother every discerning mind in Nigeria now is
to address the reason people are engaging in crimes and not only abroad
but here in Nigeria. According to him, there is an economic crisis back home, amplified by the wasteful barbarism and sleaze of the ruling class. “These things have consequences and you are seeing one of them in the
80 Nigerians arrested for cybercrime and drug trafficking, but the
typical black man does not think about tomorrow and the consequences of
his actions today.’’ Abdulahi Olajire, an educationist, said it was not only Nigerians
that leave their country for greener pastures as many Europeans, Asians,
Canadians do so too, and struggled to get their citizenship. “Were all these people driven from their country of birth because of poverty? “Please, we should all stop all these flimsy excuses in defending bad characters. “ These people are real thieves and their actions must be condemned in its totality.’’ Dr Kayode Ajulo, a constitutional lawyer and human rights activist, said cybercrime should be a source of concern to everybody. According to him, the society has abandoned merit, all we are after
is to see people with money, worship them, I think that is what caused
the problem. The constitutional lawyer said that by the time Nigerians and the
government start asking question about the source of wealth of
individuals, the craze for ill gotten wealth will reduce drastically. “There are laws in Nigeria that can be used to question the source of
people’s wealth, the agencies empowered to enforce the laws should do
so.’’ Ajulo regretted that wealthy people are honoured today in their
communities and religious organisations without questioning the sources
of their wealth. He noted that the youths could easily conclude that crime is not an offence since fraudsters are celebrated. “They saw their parents do it and get away with it. “They saw the society celebrate ill gotten wealth, they saw pastors
glorify wealthy members of the congregation, without regard to how they
got the money.’’ “ And the youths came to the conclusion: that either they make it or die trying.” ( Credit: Femi Ogunshola, NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.