The Yobe State Government and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) will collaborate further to support the development of education, healthcare, and agriculture in the state and the rebuilding of communities ravaged by Boko Haram insurgency. This was the outcome of the meeting that Governor Buni had with the new Country Representative of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Nigeria, Mr. Mohammed Yahaya. The meeting, which took place at the Yobe Governor’s Lodge in Asokoro Abuja, followed a courtesy visit that Mr Yahaya paid on the governor earlier in the day today. Governor Buni observed that the UNDP has been assisting Yobe State in its developmental strides since it was created over 28 years ago. Governor Buni also noted that given current challenges that the state faces, the UNDP can do even more on the basis of the Regional Stabilization Facility for Lake Chad Basin Countries affected by the Boko Haram crisis that launched by the UNDP in Niamey, Niger Republic two months ago. “The Stabilization Facility demonstrates the commitment that you expressed during your meeting with our country’s foreign affairs minister, Mr Geoffrey Onyeama to support the country to achieve the sustainable development goals and to meet the security challenges in the North-East”, the governor said. The governor expressed hope that with the 36 million dollars earmarked for Nigeria from the Stabilization Facility within the frost two years of implementation, the UNDP would help Yobe make progress in key areas that state government is currently working on. Governor Buni listed these areas to include education, healthcare, water supply and sanitation, youth empowerment and the rebuilding of communities ravaged by the Boko Haram crisis. On his part, the UNDP Country Representative Mr Mohammed Yahaya said after his meeting with Foreign Minister Geoffrey Onyeama yesterday, Gov. Buni was the first Nigerian official he’s met since he resumed office recently. “I wanted to have an opportunity to discuss how the UNDP can continue to support and increase its involvement under your your leadership in Yobe State and this is why I’m here and, again, i want to thank you and thank your entire leadership. Thank you very much Your Excellency”, he said. Abdullah Bego Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA