The Initiative for Global Development (IGD), a U.S.-based nonprofit
organisation, has announced the donation of 10 million dollars (N3.5
billion) for the management of sickle cell disease (SCD) in Delta. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the money is coming
through 05 Initiative, the pet project of Mrs Edith Okowa, wife of the
state Governor. Leila Ndiaye, the Chief Executive Officer of IGD, made the
announcement at a sickle cell sensitisation forum organised by 05
Initiative in New York on Thursday. The event, held on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly, was part
of the funding and partnership drive of 05 Initiative, a
nongovernmental organisation. Ndiaye said the money was meant for the digitisation of sickle cell
centres established by 05 Initiative across the state to provide care
for patients. According to her, the gesture was inspired by Mrs Okowa’s commitment
to the fight against the disease, which is widespread in Nigeria. The country is said to have one of the highest incidences of the blood disorder in the world, with about 40 million carriers. Every year, 150,000 babies are born with SCD out of which only 50,000
survive beyond age five, according to Dr Annette Akinsete, Director of
the Sickle Foundation of Nigeria. There are currently 12 sickle cell centres run by 05 Initiative in
Delta, providing treatment and counseling to patients, according to
Okowa. The governor’s wife told guests at the occasion that her campaign
against SCD was motivated by a first-hand experience with the disease. “You may be wondering why I am interested in sickle cell anemia and not cancer, heart condition, and so on. “I had a first hand experience of sickle cell anemia. I had twins as
my first issue and I lost one of them due to sickle cell anemia at age
one year five months and since then it has been a journey. “I told myself since I have gone through this, no woman should do the same. “That is why I have embarked on educating people, especially couples, to know their genotypes before getting married,” she said. She said 05 Initiative recently built and donated a multimillion
naira Sickle Cell Referral Centre to the state as part of her
humanitarian activities. According to her, the centre located in Asaba, is the second in
Nigeria and would serve as the headquarters of the other Sickle Cell
Micro Clinics in the state. In goodwill messages, the First Ladies of Ekiti and Edo, Mrs Bisi
Adeleye-Fayemi and Betsy Bene Obaseki, respectively, lauded the efforts
of their Delta counterpart. They said there was need to extend the campaign to the national
stage, pledging to use the platform of the Governors’ Wives Association
to do that. The Minister of Women Affairs, Ms Pauline Tallen, also commended Mrs
Okowa for the Initiative, saying the ministry would “join hands with her
to do more” within and beyond Delta. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA