Mr Roland Ewubare, Chief Operating Officer, Upstream, Nigerian  National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), says the redeployment in the  corporation’s upstream subsidiary is in line with efforts to achieve the  targeted growth in the country’s oil reserve to 40 billion barrels. The upstream subsidiary, Nigerian Petroleum Developments Company
(NPDC), was established in 1988 as a wholly owned subsidiary of NNPC
with responsibility for Petroleum Exploration and Production activities. Ewubare in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria Nigeria(NAN)
in Abuja on Tuesday said the redeployment became imperative for the
growth of the company. He said that the focus of the new management of the corporation was
to achieve the mandate given to it by President Muhammadu Buhari to
ensure growth of the  oil reserve and production output. “The president has given us a clear mandate of 40 billion barrels of
oil by way of reserves and national daily output of about three million
barrels per day. “Now, to achieve some of these lofty targets, we need to have a team
of professionals to understand the mission and to execute that mandate. “Our initial assessment of NPDC after we got into office was that many of the personnel there were not fit for purpose. “They were between the combination of incompetence, compromised and sheer negligence. “They have not provided the optimal level of leadership that we
expect in a company of that size. What we did was that as a routine
measure, we effected some changes in the leadership of the asset
managers and that is all it is,” he said. NAN reports that some of the affected workers had alleged that the
new NNPC Group Managing Director, Mr Mele Kyari, had redeployed them to
bring his friends to run the company. He said that it was unfortunate that some of those affected had tried to misinterpret the rationale behind the redeployment. “If you are getting any negative news in the media, that is just a
mischievous response to the exercise directed at ensuring improvement in
NPDC performance,” he added. Ewubare further stated that about 12 people at the manager level were
affected in the redeployment, adding that it would continue to happen
for the company to achieve its set goals. “I must say for the record that changes will continue until we get
the right optimal mix of talent to manage that significant national
assignment,” he added. He further explained that the redeployment was to bring in a new
sense and let the system know that misdeeds and incompetence would not
be tolerated. “Let me say for record very clearly, this redeployment has nothing to do with ethnicity, religion or geographical origin. “The GMD is from the north, I am from the south. If you look at the
leadership team, every geopolitical zone of Nigeria is represented in
the executive team. “So, that noise around sectionalism and favouritism is totally
unfounded. Again, like I said, that is the typical response you get from
mischief makers when they object to reforms,” he said. He called on all members of staff to join hands to ensure that the mandates of the corporation was achieved. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.