President Muhammadu Buhari has reassured Nigerians that ending banditry remains a key priority of his administration . In a statement by Senior Special
Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja on
Saturday, Buhari said that he would do whatever it takes to ensure the
country’s security system confronts these public enemies with merciless
determination. Buhari was reacting to  the recent spike in reported incidents of banditry and kidnappings in some parts of the country. The president condoled with all those affected by the unfortunate events. Buhari described as ridiculous allegation of indifferent being levelled against him in some quarters. “How can I be happy and indifferent to the senseless killings of my fellow citizens by bandits? “I am human and I understand the pains
of the victims and their families who have been traumatised and
impoverished by constant ransom demands by bandits. “The politicisation of tragedy reveals
the darkest sides of our primitive politics. Almost every week, I
summon my security chiefs to get an update on the strategies being
devised to defeat these mass murderers. “There is no issue that dominates my
mind every 24 hours like security, because as an elected President,
protecting life and property remains primary function of my
administration. “I constantly listen to our security
personnel in order to understand their problems and needs, and I have
never hesitated to attend to those needs in terms of motivating and
equipping them to respond effectively to our security challenges. “It is therefore ridiculous to suggest that I am indifferent to these killings. “I
have ordered rapid and robust deployment of troops to all the areas
currently under attack from bandits and we are determined to tackle this
challenge ferociously until these remorseless killers are crushed and
utterly defeated,” Buhari said. He
however, called on communities affected by banditry to support and
cooperate with the security agencies, particularly the recently
launched Operation Puff Adder to battle bandits and kidnappers. The
President said it was regrettable that bandits had informants within
some communities and utterly reprehensible that certain communities had
signed protection deals with bandits at the expense of other
communities, thereby creating complications and frustrating government’s
intervention He
appealed to communities to report suspicious movements of the bandits
into their areas within the shortest available opportunity, especially
considering the fact that  “intelligence is critical to detecting,
frustrating, neutralising and defeating the criminals.” Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.