Dr Torty Chimaeze, a Consultant Neurologist at the University of  Calabar Teaching Hospital (UCTH), has advised parents to look out for  early possible signs of autism in their children for care. Chimaeze gave the advice in an interview with the News Agency of
Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Calabar on this year’s World Autism
Awareness Day. The World Autism Awareness Day is commemorated annually on April 2 by
the United Nations to raise awareness about people living with Autism
Spectrum Disorders (ASD). The theme for 2019 is: “Assistive Technologies, Active Participation”. Chimaeze said it has been established that if intervention commences
early before the age of two, the chances of an improvement in social
communication and language in an autistic child is higher than when the
child is older. According to the expert, autism is a neuro developmental problem that
occurs at the start of childhood, affecting the social development of
the brain in a child as well as the interaction and socialisation of the
child. “You expect a child in the first six months to start making some
sounds which progresses into smiles as the child grows older but this
does not occur in a child suffering from autism. “It may start early in some children while in others it starts around the age of two. “As a child is growing up, you expect the child to identify things in
his environment and associate with peers but for children with autism,
they are socially withdrawn, they do not communicate both verbally and
non-verbally. “The four cardinal areas everyone should look out for include the
child’s social interaction, impairment in language both verbal and
non-verbal, as well as repetitive behaviours and restricted interest,’’
he said. Chimaeze said there was no need to discriminate against such children as seen in the society on daily basis. “There is a lot of stigma against autistic children; some people
believe they are possessed because they cannot communicate or develop
normally like the other children. “Some even think that these children do not have emotions but they
do, it is just that the way they are wired; these children cannot help
themselves, they need to be stimulated for them to come out of their
shells.’’ According to him, it is sad that Nigeria as a nation and Cross River
as a state, do not have proper data to have an idea of the number of
autistic children in the country and in the state. “In the last one year, I have diagnosed five children with autism but
it is quite unfortunate that Cross River has no establishment or school
dedicated to caring for autistic children. “I believe in the next few years, we will be able to get
collaborators to do studies on the number of these children we have in
Cross River. “This is so that when you go to the government for advocacy and
support, you will give correct statistics of the prevalence of the
condition in the state. “But for now, our parents must be aware that this condition is with
us and the curriculum of teachers should involve child psychology to
enable teachers identify children when they start acting strange,’’ he
said. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.