President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday reiterated that no part of the
country, regardless of its geographical location or political leaning,
would suffer neglect during his administration. Buhari disclosed this at the inauguration and handing over of
Erosion/Flood Control and Road Improvement projects at the Federal
University Dutse, Jigawa. The President, who was represented by the Minister of Interior,
retired Lt.-Gen. Abdulrahman Danbazau, said that the project was one of
the ecological intervention programmes approved for the first quarter of
2018. He added that it was approved by the Federal Executive Council on August 8, 2018, with a completion period of six months. “It was fully completed in March 2019. The project is expected to check flooding menace within the university campus,” he said. The President said that the completion of the project has also
underscored the Federal Government’s concerted effort and sincerity of
purpose in tackling environmental problems in the country. “Today’s project inauguration  and handing over must be commended as
it will offer the community an opportunity to take ownership of the
project in order to ensure its care, maintenance and stability. “I, therefore, call on the benefiting community to see the projects
as yours, jealously guard it and prevent dumping of refuse in the
constructed drainage channels,” he said. In her remarks, the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Fatima
Batul-Muktar, said that provision of infrastructure such as roads and
drainage network was critical to the development of tertiary
institutions. “Federal University Dutse has had problem of road and drainages within its permanent site since establishment in 2011. “Movement of pedestrians and motorists within the permanent site
which constitutes ninety per cent land area of the university was a
nightmare, especially during rainy season. “Relief however came in August 2018 through the Ecological Fund
Office with the award of contract for erosion/flood control and road
improvement works in the university,” she said. Also spesking, the Deputy Governor of the state, Mr Hassan Ibrahim,
promised that the state was always ready to assist  the university
 whenever the need arises He lauded the Federal Government for the gesture and contractors,
CONTECH Engineering Ltd., for timely completion of the project. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA