Search and rescue teams found wreckage from a crashed Japanese F-35  stealth fighter in the Pacific Ocean close to northern Japan as efforts  to find the missing pilot continues, authorities said on Wednesday. “The aircraft, less than one-year-old, was the first F-35 to be
assembled in Japan and was aloft for only 28 minutes on Tuesday before
contact was lost. “The plane had logged a total of 280 hours in the air since its first flight, he added. It is only the second F-35 to crash in the two-decades it has been
flying and could reignite concern about the F-35 having only one engine. The incident came as Lockheed Martin, the F-35 manufacturer, competes
for orders in Finland and Switzerland against the twin-engined
Eurofighter Typhoon and Boeing F/A-18E/F jet. “The advanced, single-seat jet was flying in good weather about 135
km east of the Misawa Air Base in Aomori Prefecture at about 7:27 p.m.
(1027 GMT) on Tuesday when it disappeared from radar. “We recovered the wreckage and determined it was from the F-35,” a
spokesman for the Air Self Defence Force (ASDF) said, adding that the
pilot of the aircraft was still missing. Eight ships and seven aircraft, including a U.S. Navy P-8 Orion
maritime patrol plane, are taking part in search and rescue efforts. Defence Minister Takeshi Iwaya told newsmen that the aircraft was at
the front of a group of four planes out for training maneuvers when it
sent an “aborting practice” signal and then disappeared from the radar. “We’ll need to cooperate with the U.S. forces and I believe
arrangements are being made for this,” Iwaya said, adding that the
priority was on determining the cause of the accident. A second ASDF official told Reuters that Japan has a total of 13
F-35s, including the one that crashed, which was the fifth delivered to
the ASDF, but the first assembled by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries in
Japan. `Japan’s remaining 12 stealth jets are grounded for now. “The previous four aircraft had been used for training in the United
States before being brought to Japan,’’ the defense official said. A representative for Mitsubishi Heavy Industries said the company had no immediate comment. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd assembles the aircraft at a plant near Nagoya in central Japan. The lost aircraft cost 14 billion yen (125.98 million dollars),
several million dollars over one purchased directly from the U.S. “The F-35’s pilot was a veteran flyer with 3,200 hours of flight time, but had spent only 60 hours in the F-35. “The aircraft crashed in waters that reach a depth of around 1,500  meters, making recovery, particularly of the aircraft’s flight data  recorder, difficult,’’ the official said. (Reuters/NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.