Bola Fahina-Abuja A Federal High Court sitting in Awka Division, Anambra State has issued a bench warrant for the arrest of Azubuike Jerry, Ikechukwu Patrick, Cosmas Onwuka and Igboanusi Jerry, for production of substandard Liquefied Petroleum Gas Cylinders. In the matter between the Standards
Organisation of Nigeria (SON) and the suspects, the organisation stated that sometime
in 2018, its officers carried out a standards enforcement activity at the
premises of the United Welders Association 58, Bida Road Onitsha, Anambra State
where approximately 1,700 suspected substandard LPG cylinders were detained. Lead Counsel for the prosecution,
Moor Kuma stated that SON subjected the said cylinders to testing and they
failed critical parameters including: Proof Pressure Test, Burst Pressure Test,
Leakage and volumetric expansion tests, following which charge No:FHC/
Awk/C/84/18 was filed at the Federal High Court against the Defendants. At the resumed hearing of the matter
on 15th April, 2019, the presiding Judge, Hon. Justice B.O Quadri dismissed the
notice of preliminary objection challenging jurisdiction of the court, filed by
the defendants through their Counsel George I. Egbere from the law firm of O.J.
Nnadi SAN & Co. for want of diligent prosecution. The Prosecution then applied to the
court for the issuance of a bench warrant to officers of the Nigeria Police Force
and the Nigeria, Security and Civil Defence Corps for the arrest of the
Defendants for the purpose of bringing them before the court. The Court accordingly granted the application
and issued the said warrant of arrest. Some of the charges against the
accused persons include: 1 “That you, Mr. Azubuike Jerry ’M’, Mr. Ikechukwu Patrick “M”, Mr. Cosmas
Onwuka “M” (still at large) and Mr. Igboanusi Jerry “M” (still at
large), all members of United Welders Association Anambra State, along 58, Bida
Road Onitsha, Anambra State, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court
on or about 27th, June, 2018, did expose for sale or uses LPG gas cylinders of
various sizes (3kg, 5kg, 6kg & 10kg) to the public which did not comply
with the Nigerian Industrial Standard NIS 69:2013 (specification for refillable
Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) Cylinders) and thereby committed an offence
punishable under Section 26 (2)  (i) of the Standards Organisation of
Nigeria Act, 2015”. 2 “That you Mr. Azubuike Jerry ’M’, Mr. Ikechukwu Patrick “M” and Mr. Cosmas
Onwuka “M” (still at large) and Mr. Igboanusi Jerry “M” (still at
large), all members of United Welders Association Anambra State, along 58, Bida
Road Onitsha, Anambra State, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court,
on or about 27th, June, 2018, engaged in the manufacturing/fabrication of LPG
Cylinders of various sizes (3kg, 5kg, 6kg & 10kg), to the public which did
not comply with the Nigerian Industrial Standard (NIS 69:2013), (specification
for refillable Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) Cylinders) and thereby committed
an offence punishable under Section 26 (2)  (i) of the Standards Organisation
of Nigeria Act, 2015.” The matter was subsequently adjourned for arraignment of the accused persons. SON Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA