The Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, says the Federal Government  will do all that is necessary to ensure that the capacities of Nigerian youth are developed and fully utilized. Osinbajo said this in Abuja on Thursday at the closing ceremony of
the National Industrial Skills Development Programme (NISDP) where more
than 11,000 youth were equipped with start-up packs by Industrial
Training Fund (ITF). He was represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr Boss Mustapha. “This event is an outcome of the policy thrust of the present
administration, which is anchored on revamping the economy, fighting
corruption, reduction of poverty and the creation of jobs for the
teeming unemployed Nigerians. “Today, I can say without equivocation that close to four years of
this administration, we have achieved most of these targets through the
implementation of social investment programmes like N-Power and Trader
Money. “Also we achieved the full implementation of the Economic Recovery
and Growth Plan (ERGP), which have had varied impact on all sectors of
the National Economy,’’ he said. Osinbajo said that the greatest challenge of the administration was
harnessing the potential of the youthful population for them to
contribute meaningfully to the growth of the National economy as
entrepreneurs or as employees. He noted that “United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA)
has projected that by year 2050, Nigeria’s population will hit 500
million. “When tied with the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) estimates
that over 26 million Nigerians are unemployed despite the numerous
initiatives of the Federal Government, it became obvious that more
needed to be done,’’ he said. Osinbajo encouraged hitherto comatose parastatal agencies with
mandates for skills acquisition to train Nigerians as a pathway to job
creation and poverty reduction by equipping them with entrepreneurial
and employability skills. According to him, one agency that has been at the forefront of this charge is the Industrial Training Fund (ITF). He said that apart from the graduation of more than 11,000 trainees,
the agency in the last two years  trained over 450,000 Nigerians and 
empowered them with start-up packs to start their own businesses. Mr Joseph Ari, Director-General of the fund, said that trainees were
trained in welding and fabrication, plumbing and pipe-fitting,
tailoring, aluminium, tiling, Plaster of Paris (POP) installation as
well as photography. According to him, the fund monitoring and evaluation template
indicates that where training occurs without the accompanying
empowerment tools, the results become less impactful. Ari said that bearing such in mind, ITF decided to empower all
beneficiaries of its skills acquisition programmes with start-up kits. “Surveys have revealed that in all cases where the trainees were
provided with the kits, more than 90 percent earned reasonable
livelihood as entrepreneurs. . “It is our conviction that training the youth and women without
equipping them, defeats the core objective of the programme and the
policy of the present administration to create wealth and grow the
economy,’’ he said. Ari said that fund had put in place some skills in order to fill the
skills gaps identified by the ITF and United Nations Industrial
Development Organisation (UNIDO) Survey. He said the fund’s target for 2019 was to equip Nigerians with
lifelong skills in the agriculture, construction, transport and services
sectors that were identified by the survey to have great potential for
job creation. Sen. Sam  Egwu,  Chairman,  Senate Committee on Industry, said that
it was not enough to have  start-up kits without fund to start the
business. Egwu said that most of the trainees were not in business because of the lack of funds. He suggested that Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Bank of Industry
should be able to give the trainees some loan or grants to put their
skills to use. “After training, some form of money should be given to the trainees to achieve their objective of the programme,’’ he said. He called on the Federal Government to do more by involving the
necessary agencies to give little assistance to the trainees because ITF
had done its part. Egwu said that the Senate was ready to support the programme by passing the necessary bills. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.