The Chief of Army Staff (COAS)  Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, said army authorities had approved the  establishment of a ‘Special Forces Battalion’ Barracks to be located in  Okene, Kogi. Buratai disclosed this on Friday to
journalists in Okene after inspecting the proposed site of the new
barracks at Okene Secondary School in Okene Local Government Area. Represented by Maj.-Gen. Ademo
Salihu, Commander, Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) Minna, Buratai
said that the new barracks would enhance security of lives and property
in Kogi. He named it ”109 Special Forces
Battalion” Barracks, Okene, and said that its establishment was prompted
by the strategic importance of Kogi in Nigeria, “being the gateway
between the North and the Southern part of the country”. ”So, the Federal Government
considers it very appropriate to locate the barracks in Okene in order
to ensure the security of the people of this important corridor. ”We all know the importance of
security in the development of any nation. If we get the security right,
every other thing will fall in place. ”We have done our assessment; we
have gone round to a couple of places, and usually there are numbers of
consideration such as technical and tactical, that will determine what
the location should be. ”We have looked at the facilities
and infrastructure of those places, we will go back to army headquarters
and our experts will write the final report, and the army headquarters
will take the final decision. ”Approval for the barracks has been
granted already and what we are here for is just to put effect to that
approval. So, you can be assured that it will be as soon as possible,”
he said. In his remarks, Kogi Governor,
Yahaya Bello, extolled the Army for the gesture and commended its
efforts in keeping Kogi peaceful. He said that his government was security conscious and had won many awards in security. ”We recognise every of your effort
and we are so pleased with the Nigerian army. We are open to a lot of
good opportunities as a confluence state, but not criminal act. ”We trust you so much, and anytime
we call upon you for any security menace, you are always there to answer
the state and you bring calmness to the situation,” he said. Bello, who was represented by
Secretary to the State Government, Dr Afolashade Arike, said that the
relationship between the state government and the army was cordial,
adding that the government also supported army in some ways. ”We are ready to collaborate with
you to make sure that we have a peaceful Kogi that every investor will
be proud to come, where we will continually sleep with our two eyes
closed. ”We are looking forward to all your efforts in bringing 100 per cent security to Kogi,” he said. When asked if the existing school in
the proposed site would be closed down, the governor said that the
barracks would not disrupt normal operations of the school. ”Even, setting up a barracks around
the school is a form of security for the children. The lives of the
children are also very important to us as a government. ”The school will be there, and the
army will have their own adjustment and it will not in any way affect
the normal running of the school,” he said. Earlier, the COAS and his entourage
had visited the palace of Ohinoyi of Ebira Land, Dr Ado Ibrahim, who
also commended the army for the gesture and promised his total support. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.