The Federal Government has assured the residents of FCT of improved electricity through its Abuja Feeding Scheme aimed at generating additional 624 megawatts to the grid when completed. Mr Louis Edozien, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing (Power) said this at the Ground Breaking of Abuja Feeding Scheme on Thursday in Abuja. Edozien said the project would also deliver 49/33 KV lines in addition to the 624 megawatts capacity. “It is Electricity Distribution Companies (DisCos) that will take this extra capacity and deliver it to the customers. “The partnership extends to the Electricity Generation Companies (GenCos) because if they don’t produce another 624 megawatts, it is only engineers that will appreciate well-constructed facilitates. “It is an end- to- end delivery we are aiming at and DisCos have a very important role to play in that.’’ The permanent secretary, however, urged the AFD to re-consider financing a distribution project in the country which was not successful some years ago when the partner supported it. “It is time to reconsider a more purposeful and successful financing intervention at the distribution and retained end of the industry. “We are committed to working with you to make sure that this time around, it is successful like the Abuja Feeding Scheme,’’ he said. Edozien also urged the contractors to ensure timely completion of the project. “I know the contractors partnering with the ministry are first class, their records spoke to that and I expect that they will demonstrate the same first-class performance in this project,’’ he said. The Project Supervision Consultant, Dr. Anthony Ehi-Uujamhan said the project was divided into six slots. Ehi-Uujamhan said the project would be implemented in some selected sites in FCT by three successful contractors that won the bidding. “It is not just monumental day in the history of Abuja but Nigeria at large that under the leadership of TCN, there is geometric progress. “We assure you of the success of the project in 24 months,’’ he said. Also speaking, Mr. Usman Mohammed, Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer, Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) said the project would boost electricity transmission in Abuja. “We are here for the groundbreaking ceremony of Abuja Feeding Scheme. “We are happy to tell you that Transmission Rehabilitation Expansion Programmes (TREP) being implemented by TCN is on track and that is why we are here,’’ he said. According to him, the increase in transmission capacity through the project will improve power supply within Abuja and its environs as well as impact positively on the socio-economic wellbeing of the residents. The TCN through the Federal Government received a credit from AFD to reinforce the high-voltage transmission ring around Abuja. The contract for the project includes design, manufacture, supply, installation, and commissioning of Transmission lines and Associated Substation Projects. The groundbreaking is to signify the official commencement of construction work on the Abuja Feeding Scheme. The scheme comprises five substations, 330KV, and 132 KV transmission lines. 