Abeokuta, April 25, 2019 (NAN) The Nigerian Maritime Administration
and Safety Agency (NIMASA) on Thursday donated relief materials to the
Ogun Government for onward distribution to victims of natural disasters
in the state. The Director-General (DG) of NIMASA, Dr Dakuku Peterside, stated at
the presentation ceremony in Abeokuta, that the gesture was to
complement efforts of the federal and the state governments in providing
succour for victims of flood, fire and other natural disasters. “This is why the agency is reaching out to at least 20 states across
all the geo-political zones of the country to provide relief materials
that would complement the efforts of the federal and state governments,”
he said. The relief materials include consumables and different types of
equipment to assist the victims in getting back to their businesses. Peterside, who was represented by the Director, Western Zonal office
of the agency, Mr Olayemi Abass, said that the agency was committed to
collaborating with the Ogun Government in restoring the victims to their
pre-loss positions. “Disasters can affect lives and properties and the effects can be
devastating especially when you consider the fact that natural disasters
cannot be planned for. “NIMASA has therefore, decided to go round the country to reach out to as many lives that are affected as possible. “We are also looking at working on need assessment of the affected
states so that we can provide materials that will help them back to
their normal lives,” he said. Peterside explained that the closeness of Ogun to Lagos States where
Nigeria’s major ports were domiciled had made Ogun important to the
country. He emphasised the pivotal role of Ogun in easing out congestions in the processes of evacuation of goods from the Lagos ports. While receiving the items on behalf of the state government, the
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Mrs Yetunde Dina,
commended NIMASA for reaching out to the state. Dina, who gave assurance that the materials would be distributed
judiciously, noted that “Ogun is one of the worst hit when it comes to
flooding.” (NAN)  Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA