The Executive Secretary of the National Human Rights
Commission (NHRC) Tony Ojukwu Esqr, said the Commission in collaboration with the
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), will focus
on monitoring of detention facilities under the 2019 IDPs Protection Monitoring
Project, which is being implemented by both organizations. Ojukwu made this disclosure at a three-day training of Protection Monitors in the North East. At the training which took place in Yola at the instance of
the NHRC in Collaboration with the UNHCR, the human rights Boss said “we need
to bring into focus people who have come in conflict with the law due to
displacement, and consequently find themselves in prisons and other detention
centers. He said relevant topics have been incorporated in the
training modules to fully equip monitors on the adequate skills for effective
monitoring and documentation, focusing on minimum standard rules of treatment
of prisoners and access to justice. He admonished monitors to bring to fore issues that are under-reported
or go unnoticed, as they are capable of fostering the violation of the rights
of the displaced persons. Though Ojukwu noted that “most of the
displaced persons are returning home now” contrary to what happened at the
upsurge of violence in the North East “where tens of thousands of innocent
civilians were displaced from their communities” he lamented that their
humanitarian needs still remain enormous. According to the UNHCR Country Representative in Nigeria,
protecting the IDPs is not complete without provision of solutions to their
protection issues. Represented by Mr. Tejan Cole who is with the UNHCR office in
Yola, the Country Rep said communities should be able to provide solutions to
their problems by identifying, documenting and referring problems without the
presence of the NHRC/UNHCR. He said with improvement in the security situation in the
project states of Adamawa, Borno and Yobe, the NHRC/UNHCR will not be with the
communities of the Population of concern forever. He added that it therefore becomes imperative for them to
leverage on the existing relationship already established with relevant
agencies to seek redress or succor on protection issues where necessary. Some protection monitors applauded the training saying it
serve as a refresher course which will enhance their performance on the field. About fifty protection monitors were trained from Adamawa, Borno and Yobe State. NHRC Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA