The Nigerian Army has taken delivery of LPG cylinders manufactured by  a Nigerian company for the flag off of its LPG Welfare Scheme, aimed at  promoting LPG adoption among its officers and men. The cylinders were produced at Techno Oil’s newly-built LPG
manufacturing plant in Lagos, which started rolling out cylinders
earlier this year. The TecnoGas cylinders, which have since secured certifications by
various agencies, including the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON),
are being produced in commercial quantities for Nigeria and overseas
markets. On April 11, the army inaugurated a scheme, known as the Nigerian
Army Welfare by Guarantee Ltd., and followed up with the inauguration of
a Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) plant at the Mambila Barracks in Abuja. The event was witnessed by the Minister of State for Petroleum
Resources, Mr Ibe Kachikwu, who directed that filling stations would
henceforth, host LPG plants as part of efforts to deepen cooking gas
usage in Nigeria. Speaking on the development in Lagos on Monday, the Executive
Vice-Chairman of the Techno Oil Group, Mrs Nkechi Obi, told reporters
that the interest shown by the army in LPG adoption was pivotal in the
campaign to promote the use of cleaner energy. She noted that Techno Oil Group had positioned adequately to meet
Nigeria’s cylinder needs with the commencement of commercial production
of high quality cylinders at the company’s LPG manufacturing plant. Obi said that Techno Oil could supply any quantity of cylinders
desired at the army’s micro-distribution centres, which were established
to make officers and men to have easy access to LPG facilities. According to her, the Techno Oil cylinder manufacturing plant has
capacity to produce up to five million LPG cylinders annually, to meet
domestic and export needs. She decried what she described as the high level of sub-standard and
used cylinders being imported into the country by unscrupulous
businessmen. Obi said that her plant had been producing different sizes of
cylinders and that the plant was built with complete production
facilities with a modern laboratory as well as a testing equipment. The industrialist expressed her excitement on the interest shown by
the army in the LPG adoption drive, saying that the development would
stimulate LPG interest among other key national institutions. “We are calling on other government agencies, ministries and
departments to emulate the army’s gesture of patronising locally-made
cylinders and accessories. “We are ever ready to collaborate with any agency or institution in our bid to deepen LPG adoption in Nigeria,’’ she said. The executive vice-chairman, however, appealed for government’s
support and incentives, to encourage affordability of cylinders to
sustain the country’s LPG adoption programme. Obi also called on government to put stringent measures in place to
check importation of LPG cylinders to discourage capital flight. Techno Oil blazed the trail a few years ago by embarking on local
manufacturing of LPG cylinders as part of measures to deepen LPG
adoption in the country. The company has after securing SON certification, obtained the agency’s compulsory MANCAP certification. The certification was given to Techno Oil after the company
successfully completed SON’s rigorous Mandatory Conformity Assessment
Programme. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.