Maikanti Baru, Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum
Corporation (NNPC), says that the Ajeokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) gas
pipeline project will be completed by 2022. Baru disclosed this while delivering a keynote address at the 19th  Oloibiri Lecture Series and Energy Forum in Abuja on Thursday. He spoke on the topic  ” The Road Map for Energy sustainability in Nigeria”. Oloibiri was the first place oil was discovered in Nigeria on Jan. 15,  1956. Oloibiri Oilfield is an onshore field located in Oloibiri in Ogbia Local Government Area of Bayelsa. Oloibiri Lecture series is an annual event that brings stakeholders
in the industry together to discuss issues that would drive growth and
development of the sector. “The Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano pipeline that is proposed to convey gas
from the Niger Delta, through Ajaokuta to Kaduna and Kano, will be
completed by 2022,” he said. According to him, the pipeline, when installed, will also supply 3,600 mega watts of power to the national grid. He also noted that the visibility study on Nigeria/Morocco gas
pipeline project had been completed, adding that phase one of the field
work was equally finalised. He said it was unfortunate that in spite of the abundant oil and gas
reserves, Nigeria continued to experience shortages in electric power. He said that based on available data, Nigeria’s energy consumption
was projected to rise from six Gigawatts (GW) in 2015 to 30 by 2025 Baru said that to achieve this, the country would need aggressive development of gas and renewable projects. He added that the 1.1 billion standard cubic feet (SCF) of gas, 342
kilometres by 36 inches Escravos-Lagos Pipeline System, ELPS II, had
achieved 97 completion. He said the remaining 70 kilometres of the pipeline would be completed by the middle of 2019. “The 130 kilometres by 48 inches/36 inches Obiafu/Obrikom-Oben, OB3,
pipeline with the capacity to link the eastern and western parts of the
country with about two billion SCF of gas daily, was at 92 per cent
completion and would also be concluded by the middle of the year,” he
said. The Managing Director of Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production
Company (SNEPCO), says the Nigeria’s energy supply remained very poor. He also lamented that 70 per cent of households and small businesses
in Nigeria hardly get more than four hours of electricity daily. This, he said, was because 70 per cent of electricity generated by power companies was lost before it got to the consumers. He said that the energy gap posed negative consequences for Nigeria’s
productivity, competitiveness, employment, security, food security,
nutrition, environment, health and education. “The gap in terms of energy supply is disgraceful. The energy gap in
Nigeria is the foundation for so many of the country’s economic and
social development problems. ” In most countries, when you talk about energy security, they are
talking about the health of their people, education of their people, for
their children and for their future. “They are talking about being a competitive country where people can
invest. They are talking about the environment, productivity and food
security among others. “Energy is not standing alone. Our industry is not about producing and exporting oil; it is about how we impact our societies.” He blamed the loss of electricity generated on aging equipment, funding problems and sometimes, vandalism. He, however, said that the gap presents massive opportunity for large scale on grid and small scale off-grid investments. “Technologies and business models exist for cleaner, affordable and
scalable solutions. Alternative energy solutions can have short term
financial and social impact for investors on livelihoods and economic
activity,” he added. Mr Debo Fagbami, Chairman, Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), said
the lecture series was an avenue for stakeholders to bring ideas that
could cause development in the sector. He said the society would continue to play its part to ensure that
the sector contributed effectively to growth and development of the
country at large. The Oloibiri lecture series is an annual event that brings
stakeholders in the industry together to discuss issues that would drive
growth and development of the sector. It is organised by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA