The Coordinator of NYSC in Adamawa, Malam Abubakar Mohammed, said  many corps members who applied for relocation from Adamawa to other  states had changed their minds and resolved to stay. Mohammed made this known Tuesday in Yola at the closing ceremony of
the 2019 Batch ‘A’ Orientation Course for Corps Members deployed to
Adamawa. He said the orientation period provided the corps members the  opportunity to discard the negative perception they earlier had about  the state necessitating their change of mind. “This has made many of them to have very positive perception about the state, contrary to what they held before coming. “Consequently, a good number of them who earlier applied for
relocation to other states have opted to request for cancellation and
settle down to serve here,” Mohammed said. Mohammed lauded the state government and other stakeholders for their
support for NYSC programme and urged them to continue to give priority
to security of corps members deployed to the state. “Equally, I am soliciting for support and goodwill from political
leaders at the grassroots, royal fathers, youth leaders and the general
public. “This will go a long way in assuring the corps members that they are at home away from home. “In the same vein, it will spur them to be more dedicated in carrying
out their duties, wherever they may be posted to for their primary
assignment and in their community development service.” The coordinator lauded the corps members for the commitment shown
during the orientation and urged them to show the same zeal in their
respective place of primary assignment. “Be good ambassadors of your families, your states of origin, the NYSC scheme and our great nation, Nigeria.” The Governor of the state, Muhammadu Bindow, urged the corps members
to make maximum use of their knowledge and skills acquired during the
orientation to make positive impact in their areas of primary
assignment. He was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Dr Umar Bindir. “More importantly, I encourage you to locate centres where you can
speed up the process of perfecting the various skills you learnt from
the camp, through the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship
Development training. “Doing so will assuredly accelerate your chances of becoming self-reliant, financially,” Bindow said. The governor assured them of security, adding that the people of the
state were hospitable and always ready to receive corps members. “I want to, however, advise you to respect the sensibilities of the people you will be posted to. “Feel free to mingle with them, but please, respect their customs and
traditions, dress decently, and don’t dabble into their local
politics.” Adamawa is one of the  states in the North-east of Nigeria, ravaged by Boko Haram insurgency (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.