 The African Development Bank (AfDB) says economic growth in East  Africa has recorded the highest GDP among other regions on the  continent. The statement released by the Development Bank on Friday indicated
that the East Africa’s economic performance in 2018 was at 5.7 per cent
GDP, while the overall outlook for the rest of Africa was cautious, but
positive. According to the bank, job creation and ramping up manufacturing will
continue to be major priority areas for creating growth and employment
across the continent. The bank inaugurated four of its five regional economic outlook
reports this week in Abuja, Yaounde, Nairobi and Pretoria, with specific
forecasts for West, Central, East and South Africa. The reports follow the January inauguration of the 2019 African
Economic Outlook, which provides a broader, continent-wide perspective. “East Africa is leading the continent with GDP growth estimated at
5.7 per cent in 2018, followed by North Africa at 4.9 per cent, West
Africa at 3.3 per cent, Central Africa at 2.2 per cent, and Southern
Africa at 1.2 per cent. “Economic growth across Eastern Africa will remain at a robust 5.9
percent in 2019, making it a promising investment and manufacturing
destination. “Within the region, Ethiopia is in the lead as the fastest growing
economy with  a predicted 8.2 per cent growth in 2019, while Rwanda 7.8
per cent, Tanzania 6.6 per cent, Kenya six per cent, Djibouti 5.9 per
cent and Uganda 5.3 per cent” AfDB stated. The bank added that growth in Central Africa was gradually recovering, but remained below the average for Africa as a whole. “It is supported by recovering commodity prices and higher
agricultural output and the region is one of the continent’s least
integrated, with potential for reforms and greater linkages. “The West Africa Regional Economic Outlook shows that the region
needs to explore innovative means of raising revenue through reforms
that enhance tax collection, minimize tax evasion, and curb illicit
financial flows. “Between 2014 and 2017, West Africa’s GDP growth trailed the rate for
Africa as a whole, though it was faster than in Central and Southern
Africa. “Countries bucking the downward trend, such as Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana
and Senegal, continue to offer positive examples of economic recovery in
a sober economic environment. “Growth in Southern Africa is expected to remain moderate in 2019 and 2020 after a modest recovery in 2017 and 2018. “Southern Africa’s subdued growth is due mainly to economic
stagnation in South Africa, the largest regional economy, which has a
ripple effect on neighboring countries” it added. AfDB said all the regions faced similar risks to their economic  prospects in 2019 and 2020, including rising debt, fragility, population  growth and climate change. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.