The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control
(NAFDAC) says it has not registered FanYogo Gin and Ginger drink in
Nigeria. Its Director-General, Prof. Moji Adeyeye, made the clarification on Thursday in Abuja. Adeyeye said that the drink, which contained 12.5 per cent alcohol,
and being circulated in the social media, was not a product of Fan Milk
Plc. “The attention of NAFDAC has been drawn to the images of Fan Milk
“FanYogo Gin & Ginger” purported to contain 12.5 per cent alcohol
being circulated widely to the general public via social media. “The management of NAFDAC is using this medium to reassure the
general public that the said product is not registered by NAFDAC; is not
known to NAFDAC and is not in circulation in Nigeria. “NAFDAC has carried out a thorough investigation at the facility of Fan Milk Plc. “We can confirm that no such product is being developed by the
company and no stock of packaging materials of the said “Fan Yogo Gin
& Ginger” were found in the premises,” she said. Adeyeye added that Fan Milk PLC had also notified NAFDAC that the said product did not originate from the company. “The company, Fan Milk PLC, known to NAFDAC as a producer of milk
products, has also issued a letter to NAFDAC in which they referred to
the image circulating in the news and social media as a ‘false,
mischievous and malicious image’. “The communication to NAFDAC includes the following statements which we share below for the re-assurance of the general public – “The product or image in question is not among any of the current Fan
Milk Nigeria products currently produced in Nigeria and anywhere within
the West Africa Cluster. “FanYogo is one of the brands produced by Fan Milk Ghana Limited, one
of our sister companies. The purported ‘FanYogo Gin & Ginger’ will
not be registered in Nigeria. “The image came to fore just as Fan Milk Ghana started a public poll to decide the release of a new flavor. “The images are the imagination of some mischief makers that have seized the opportunity to distort the social media space. “The poll has since been shut down considering that children may be exposed to the images. “The NAFDAC management wishes to reassure the general public that the
agency is fully alive to her responsibilities, ” Adeyeye said. She assured the public of the safety, wholesomeness and quality of  processed foods and other regulated products offered for sale. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.