President  Muhammadu Buhari has communicated his non-assent to Ajaokuta Steel Company Completion Fund Bill, 2018. The President also declined assents to seven other bills forwarded to him by the National Assembly in February. The President of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki made the announcement at plenary on Tuesday. He said several reasons, including infractions and duplication of
responsibilities of existing agencies and financial constraints, were
cited in separate letters for the non-assent. Buhari in the Ajaokuta Completion Fund Bill letter, dated March 19,  2018, said appropriating 1 billion dollar from the Excess Crude Account  (ECA) as requested for in the bill is not the best strategic option for  Nigeria at this time of budgetary constraints. “The nation cannot afford to commit such an amount in the midst of
competing priorities with long term social and economic impact that the
funds can be alternatively deployed. “Bills seeking to make appropriation of revenues to fund public
expenditure should be consolidated in the annual Appropriation Act. “Such that these proposals pass through the traditional scrutiny that
budget proposals are subjected to by the Ministries of Finance, Budget
and National Planning and the National Assembly. “Furthermore, as the Excess Crude Account Funds belong to the
Federation, it would be proper to consult with the National Economic
Council where the states are represented,” he said. He added:”Relevant stakeholders such as the Ministries of Mines and
Steel Development, Industry, Trade and Investment were not fully
consulted. “The inputs of key stakeholders are necessary to create the optimal
legal and regulatory framework as well as institutional mechanism to
adequately regulate the steel sector.” In another letter dated March 27 and denying assent to the Small and
Medium Enterprises Development Agency Bill, 2018, the President cited
Section 32 of the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency Bill
2018 as one of the reasons for refusing assent. “Section 32 of the bill, introduces a two and half per cent levy on
the profit before tax of the target companies which will increase the
tax burdens of the companies while offering no direct benefit to them. “A one per cent levy on  imports, which will also add to the cost of doing business in the country. “A five per cent levy on luxury goods, which duplicates efforts by
the Federal Ministry of Finance to raise excise on such goods in a more
sustainable manner to the benefit of the Federal Government treasury,”
he said. The letter added that if signed into law, the agency would have
similar objectives to the Bank of Industry(BOI) particularly with regard
to the funding of Small and Medium Enterprises. Other bills Buhari declined assents to are the Nigerian Aeronautical
Search and Rescue Bill 2018, Chartered Institute of Training and
Development of Nigeria (Establishment) Bill 2018 and  Federal Mortgage
Bank of Nigeria Bill 2018. Others are the National Housing Fund Bill 2018, National Institute of  Credit Administration Bill 2018 and National Bio- Technology  Development Agency Bill 2018. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.