The Minister of Finance, Mrs Zainab  Ahmed and the Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr Godwin  Emefiele, will join other economic experts from around the world to  discuss issues affecting global economy in Washington DC, U.S. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the discussions  are
scheduled to hold between  April 9 and April 14, under the auspices of
the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in
Washington DC. The 2019 Spring Meetings of the IMF and the World Bank is expected to  bring together central bank governors, ministers of finance,  parliamentarians, private sector executives, representatives from civil  society organizations and the academia. The experts will discuss issues of global concern, including the
world economic outlook, poverty eradication, economic development and
aid effectiveness. The meeting will also feature seminars, regional briefings, press
conferences and many other events with focus on global economy,
international development and the world’s financial system. NAN reports that Nigeria attends the meeting each year because of the
quantum of investments and technical support it receives from both the
IMF and the World Bank. Although Nigeria currently has zero loans with the IMF, it enjoys technical support from the organization. The World Bank Group on the other hand is helping to fight poverty
and improve living standards in the country through 33 Core Knowledge
Product Reports and 29 ongoing National and Regional projects. This is in addition to about 60 Trust Funds. The World Bank Group since 1958, has supported Nigeria with loans and
International Development Association (IDA) credits worth about 14.2
billion dollars. The group in 2017 fiscal year alone committed 1.51 billion dollars to
Nigeria, 2.58 billion dollars in 2018 and in 2019; it has already
committed 20 million dollars on different development projects across
the country. Some of the projects are on nutrition, polio eradication, conflict
monitoring, electrification, erosion, education, economic
transformation, promoting fiscal transparency and accountability in
states. Meanwhile, the Executive Directors of the World Bank on Friday
unanimously selected David Malpass as President of the World Bank Group
for a five-year term, effective Tuesday. Earlier in his career, Malpass served as the U.S. Deputy Assistant
Secretary of the Treasury for Developing Nations and Deputy Assistant
Secretary of State for Latin American Economic Affairs. (NAN) Innocent Korie is an ICT and Project Management Professional with very good flair in  business development,  and Online media management.