The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Yakubu Dogara, has
urged President Muhammadu Buhari, to review the security architecture to
urgently end wanton killings in the country. Dogara made the call on Thursday, in Abuja, while addressing members of the house during plenary. He decried the continuous deterioration of the country’s security
situation, especially in the North East, North West and some parts of
the North Central. “Only three days ago, scores of people were killed in Sokoto State
and elsewhere; hardly any week passes without reports of mass killings
and bloodletting, either by terrorists or armed bandits. “This calls for drastic, urgent and concerted action and efforts to
bring the situation to a quick end as citizens are looking up to us. “And we cannot afford to fail them because security of lives and properties is the primary purpose of government. “It is therefore imperative for the President and Commander-In-Chief
of the Armed Forces to take a hard look at our national security
architecture with a view to fixing the malady, in order to secure lives,
national pride and prestige,” Dogara said. The speaker said that the fight against unbridled violence was one
the country could not afford to lose as it was tantamount to loosing
civilisation. Ahead of the Feb. 16 and March 2, elections, Dogara urged lawmakers
to strike a good balance between commitment to legislative duties and
participation in the campaigns. He urged all political leaders to cultivate the highest level of
decorum, responsibility and respect for the laws of electioneering
campaigns. `We must, through our conduct, show our commitment to the successful
and peaceful conduct of the elections; and above all, the sustenance of
our democracy. “We should avoid the tendency of being hypocritical by engaging in misdeeds that we are quick to point out in our opponents. “Let us be guided by our conscience and the teachings of our
religions, which demand that we judge ourselves before judging others,’’
the speaker said. Dogara maintained that National Assembly was proud of its efforts to
guarantee successful and rancour-free conduct of the elections by
passing the Electoral Act Amendment Bill for the third time after the
president declined assent twice. He said that lack of passage of the amended bill meant that the
impending elections would not benefit from the innovative mechanisms
crafted in its collaboration with International and Development
partners. According to him, well-meaning Nigerians and the International
community foresee the possibility of manipulating the coming elections
because of the gaps in the current Electoral Act. He said there were fears that the identified loopholes in the act
might become a reality if proactive steps were not taken by critical
stakeholders. Dogara said the series of serious allegations by stakeholders,
corroborated by some media reports, against INEC and the Nigerian Police
in recent elections, which are already subjects of litigations, were
some of the factors raising uncertainties on the success of the coming
polls. He said that the intention of lawmakers to improve on the successes
of the 2015 General Elections through the Amendment Bill, was very clear
to all fair-minded Nigerians. “We had intended, through this Bill, to minimise the risk to the
survival of our hard-won democracy through responsive and timely
legislation aimed at ensuring free, fair and transparent elections. “Nonetheless, as Parliament, we have done our best to guarantee the
stability and growth of our fragile democracy and I have no doubt that
history will be very kind to us. “Under the present circumstance, we have no choice than to take INEC
and the Police by their words and give them the benefit of doubt in
their recent assurances to be impartial, efficient and truthful in the
conduct of the coming elections. “This is the minimum that the country deserves from them at this
auspicious time, nothing short of complete openness, a level playing
ground and strict adherence to extant laws will be acceptable to
Nigerians,” Dogara said. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA