By AbdulRazaq Jimoh Former deputy CBN governor and Presidential candidate of Young Progressive Party (YPP) in the February 16, 2019 Presidential Election has revealed that diversification of economy wil be his priority  if elected as president of Nigeria. The YPP candidate stated this at
a town hall meeting tagged “The Candidates” jointly
organised by the Nigerian Television Authority NTA and Daria media. The program
which was live on NTA Network service, other TV and radio stations as well
as onlinemedia was
moderated by Kadaria Ahmed. Professor Moghalu while explaining his
economic plan said he will diversify economy through technological advancement
and create philosophical foundation by tapping into inventors. He
said, his governemnt
will abolish petroleum subsidies and channel the money into innovative ideas
that will boost the private sector. The professor said he will tackle
the root cause of corruption which is the broken system in the country and
stated that he would create a system that will make corruption difficult. Reacting to question from
participants on how he intends to tackle power problem, the former CBN deputy
governor explained that he will disintegrate national grid in industrial areas
and renewable energy. The YPP Presidential candidate said 50% of power will be
sourced from renewable energy. while giving insight on how he
will address the security challenges in the country Prof.
Moghalu reveals that
there will be change in leadership of security agencies and intelligent
gathering units. Adding that appointment of
security chiefs will not be based on sentiments rather on competence and
expertise. He said he will introduce the
teaching of ethics in schools and approve free education for primary and secondary
education. The former CBN deputy governor
promised constitutional restructuring by sitting with the members of the
national assembly. He expressed confidence that he will emerged victorious at
the poll come February 2019. Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.