 By Abdul-Razaq
Jimoh President Muhammadu Buhari has reiterated his
commitment to free, fair and credible election in the 2019 general elections. The President who stated this during a live
TV town hall meeting tagged ‘The Candidates’ said
he would gladly accept result if defeated even though he was optimistic of
winning the election. The TV town hall meeting was jointly organised
by Nigerian Television Authority and Daria
Media was moderated by Kadaria Ahmed and feature questions from the
participants. The President and the
Vice President who are the
candidates of All
Progressive Congress responded to a number of questions ranging from
Corruption, Infrastructural development, security and economy. President Buhari while responding to questions
on how he is handling corruption cases particularly, the case of Babachir Lawal
former SGF,  said “That
is not fair criticism of the government. I do not think there is anybody that
is being pointed out as corrupt in this dispensation which we looked the other
direction. “I told you why I have to be careful; the public should help us,
if there are strong allegations that are backed up with evidences, bank
accounts, names of companies floated and contracts awarded. “Then we will take them before the courts through the EFCC and
ICPC; and we have to trust the system and allow them to complete investigation. “If we just take people in as we did during the military and
lock them up, the present democracy multi-party democracy does not approve of
that. “If you accuse any person, you have to provide evidence in court
for him to be prosecuted. So, if there are strong allegations, the government
may decide to ask people to go, like in the case of the former Secretary to the
Government of the Federation, we asked him to go. “The matter is already before the EFCC and I believe that a
directive has been issued to charge him and all persons who have cases before
the EFCC.’’ The President reiterated his total commitment to fighting
corruption saying his administration will never condone corruption The Vice President Yemi Osinbajo while supporting the President on corruption issues said the administration has been able to block the loopholes with the Treasury Single Account (TSA). He said that all recovered looted funds will be used for developmental purposes after budgetary processes and approval of the National Assembly. On properties, he said the ones that final forfeiture, have been secured, such (assets) become the
property of the state unless where there was a legal claim to it. On security, the VP said,
farmers’ herders clashes especially in Benue, are
attributable to the climate
change. Saying the development was getting worse because of desertification, adding
that the federal government is
collaborating with neighbouring
countries to
address it. The vice president
said that the long term plan to address the development was to create ranches,
saying that water dams were presently being created by the federal government
as a short term measure. He said the federal government was making efforts to recharge the
Lake Chad which is shrinking. The President at the Townhall said
the welfare of military men and women fighting Boko Haram insurgency are being taken
seriously saying his administration will not compromise in flushing out the
insurgents from our land Responding to Economic matters, Vice
President Professor Osinbajo explained that their efforts at revamping the economy has been
great. He said there was a government in this country
where $292m was withdrawn weeks to the election another 40bn was withdrawn, “we have the evidence, poverty at that time
was still at the 112”, today
we are spending a mere 20b for 2M people which he said economy has continued to
grow stronger through many interventions by the government. President Buhari and Vice President Osinbajo of the APC are the second in the series of ” The Candidates” Town hall after Kingsley Moghalu and Ummah Getso feetured last week. The programme is expected to feature Omoyele Sowore and his running mate, Rabiu Rufai,  on Jan. 23, while Atiku Abubakar and his
running mate, Peter Obi, would be featured on the programme Jan. 30. Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.