REA Abuja, Nigeria – The Federal Government of Nigeria, through the Rural Electrification Agency, is implementing the Energizing Economies Initiative (EEI) which supports the rapid deployment of off-grid electricity solutions to provide clean, safe, affordable and reliable electricity to economic clusters (e.g., market places, shopping centres, industrial facilities) in Nigeria through private sector developers. EEI aims to assist over 80,000 shops within a year, empower over 340,000 micro, small and medium size enterprises,  create over 2,500 jobs with the initial 16 economic clusters while serving over 18 million Nigerians. This initiative is already transforming businesses across the country with
the steady power supply increasing economic activity, spurring business growth,
fostering job creation and enhancing the business experience. On Saturday, 19th January, 2019, the Honourable Minister of
Power, Works & Housing, His Excellency, Babatunde Raji Fashola, SAN, inspected
the Iponri Market Solar Electrification Project in company of the Managing
Director/CEO, Rural Electrification Agency, Mrs. Damilola Ogunbiyi and other
dignitaries. Iponri market is a shopping complex located
in Surulere, Lagos. It attracts
customers from all over the country as it serves the exponentially growing
wedding and party industry in the country. Businesses in Iponri market are mainly
souvenir shops, electronic products, tailoring, financial and printing
services. The market is being electrified with world-class solar stand-alone
systems technology within hubs installed across the market. It also has an
onsite state-of-the-art customer service shop with an extensive remote sensing
network set up and managed by the private sector developer – Iponri Market Energy Solutions Limited
(IMESL). Iponri market has 450 shops which
are currently metered and energized with the remaining shops expected to be
completed later this year. “The
people that drive our economy deserve reliable electricity. They are in
markets, they are in shopping malls, they are in corners, they are in small
shops. They constitute the best in any economy. This administration understands
energy is an important component of their business. Now the solution that has
been deployed it has reduced the cost they incure to run their businesses. We
are now also implementing, a policy that no government before us committed to,
developing energy through mini grids. Iponri market is now being powered by
solar. This solution is also in Sabon Gari market, Kano state and it is coming
up in many other markets.” – Honourable Minister of Power, Works and Housing,
H.E Babatunde Raji Fashola, SAN “Iponri further underscores
the Federal Government of Nigeria’s commitment to the deployment of clean,
reliable and affordable energy solutions in our markets by providing the
enabling environment for targeted economic growth through private sector
partnerships. –  Damilola Ogunbiyi, Managing Director/Chief
Executive Officer, Rural Electrification Agency “Iponri Market Energy Solutions Limited is honoured that the Honourable Minister
is visiting Iponri Market Energy Solutions here at Iponri market. This visit
has shown that a decentralized model of energy provision is in line with the
objectives of the Energizing Economies Initiative.” – Ademola Adesina, CEO Rensource/Iponri
Market Energy Solutions Limited “I am very happy to come to my
shop now since there is clean and constant solar power supply waiting for me in
my shop.” – Mrs. Morounke
Odubiro, Shop owner (Iponri market) “The solar power
solution will eradicate noise and air pollution in the market and has encouraged
customers to spend more time in the shop” – Mr. Wasiu Oriade Adetunji, Chairman (Baba Oloja), Shop Owners Association (Iponri
market) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA