President Muhammadu Buhari Tuesday in Aba, Abia State, pledged to provide more infrastructure to the South-East geopolitical zone of the federation to give a further impetus to the spirit of industry, hard work and competitiveness for which the Igbo are known. “They deserve more and more infrastructure to further excel,” the President said. President Buhari, who kicked off a two-State campaign tour of Abia and Imo States Tuesday, got two critical endorsements for his second term bid. The first was from the Chairman of Aba Traditional Council, His Royal Majesty, Dr Isaac Ikonne, Enyi 1 of Aba, who called on all indigenes of Abia State to vote for the All Progressives Party, APC Presidential Candidate. He said the Igbo people would remain loyal and committed to President Buhari for the payment of pensions to ex-Biafran security personnel; for the administration’s policy on ease of doing business which, the traditional ruler said, had benefited the Igbo more than any other ethnic group, and the massive infrastructural development going on throughout the southeast. “You love Nigeria and you need to return to consolidate your fight against the monster of corruption and to take us to the Next Level. I want to assure you that Aba and Abians and indeed all Igbos will massively vote for you,” the royal father told the President as he raised his hand and proclaimed him winner of the coming presidential poll. The second endorsement was by the secretary-general of apex-Igbo socio-cultural group, Ohanaeze Ndigbo,  Uche Okwukwu, who had earlier expressed a dissenting view from that of his chairman in expressing support for the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP in the imminent elections. Okwukwu announced the adoption of President Buhari as the true Ohanaeze candidate who will be formally recognized as such at a coming event at the Aso Rock Villa. On his part, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State, welcomed the existing “synergy” between the federal government and his state which he said, had come with enormous gains that are cherished by the government and the people. Garba Shehu Tanimu is an Online Editor with Africa's Largest TV Network. Produces when not on Social media.