Abe said in Port Harcourt that derogatory statements recently being paraded on social media by aggrieved party faithful regarding eligibility of the party’s candidates in the forthcoming general elections in Rivers were not in the best interest of the party. He added that such comments on the social media would not in any way help to resolve the crisis at the state chapter of the party. “I have read through a lot of comments on this platform and do not consider them helpful. “It is true that there are those who feel that the Minister of Transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, was wrong and there are equally those who felt that I, Sen. Abe, was wrong. “I appeal to you all to please stop abusing yourselves on this platform. “It’s enough! If the minister still believes he can save his candidates, he should be allowed to pursue his options in peace,” he said in a statement by his spokesman, Mr Parry Benson,. Abe, who is also a gubernatorial aspirant of the factional APC in Rivers, said that the in-fighting in the party was unnecessary, especially as it was orchestrated by saboteurs who wanted to rise by bringing others down. “I remember that Hon. Loolo Ibieneye correctly predicted that the current road on which we (Rivers Chapter of the party) were being led will lead to disaster. “And I believed that road was wrong ab initio, and I said so, we must continue our quest for peace,” he said. Abe queried the role most party members played and their contributions when the party was derailing. “Those who are interested in saving the party should quit the blame game and name calling. “Let us focus on what we can do to gather ourselves together,” Abe said. The lawmaker charged party faithful on a renewed mindset so as to restore confedince and hope to the party. “We must preach and act forgiveness and tolerance. Rightly or wrongly, we are in a quagmire before the entire country. “It is clear that no one person, not myself nor the Minister for Transportation have answers, but I am committed to the party, let us talk constructively and look for ways forward,” Abe said. (NAN) 