Astronomy and Astrophysics researchers at the University of Nigeria  Nsukka (UNN), said on Saturday that there was nothing to fear over the  expected total lunar eclipse on Monday. According to The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)  The researchers said eclipse is a natural occurrences that helps scientists understand the celestial body One of them, Dr Bonaventure Okere, while reacting to the lunar  eclipse expected to take place on Monday, said some people still  misunderstood the natural occurrence. Lunar eclipse occurs when the moon appears darkened as it passes into
the earth’s shadow and occurs only when the sun, earth and moon were
exactly aligned with the earth between the two. It can occur only on the night of a full moon. The type and length of
a lunar eclipse depend on the moon’s proximity to either node of its
orbit. NAN reports that the National Space Research and Development Agency  (NASRDA) predicted that Nigeria would experience total lunar eclipse on  Monday. Prof. Augustine Ubachukwu, leader of the researchers, said unlike
solar eclipse, which occurs when the moon completely covers the sun’s
disk, lunar eclipse was safe to view. Ubachukwu said “people can view the lunar eclipse without any eye
protection or special precautions, as they are dimmer than the full
moon.” According to him, the total phase of this total lunar eclipse will be
visible from North and South America, and Western parts of Europe and
Africa. “Central and Eastern Africa, Europe, and Asia will see a partial eclipse of the Moon. “The lunar eclipse begins at 3:36 a.m. early Monday and last until
8:48 a.m., starting and ending as the moon passes through the penumbra
(the lighter part ) of the earth’s shadow”. The team leader said the whole duration of the eclipse would be one hour, one minute and 58 seconds. He further said the whole process would include partial eclipse
initially, full eclipse, maximum eclipse,full eclipse again, moon set
and end with a partial eclipse. Ubachukwu also said people should not be scared, as the eclipse was one of creation’s mysteries. (NAN) 