The Nigeria Natural Resource Charter (NNRC) has called for better
management of Nigeria’s oil and gas resources with a view to
repositioning the country as one of the fastest growing economy in the
world. Tengi George-Ikoli, Programme Coordinator, NNRC, made the call at the
presentation of soft media launch of NNRC’s 2019 benchmark exercise
report in Abuja. The media launch explored Nigeria’s performance against 12
pre-conditions to effective resource management proposed by the NNRC to
determine how far or close Nigeria might be in achieving its objectives. The report is the fourth in the series of benchmarking exercise
reports produced by NNRC, carried out to provide an assessment of
governance on Nigeria’s petroleum wealth. The previous reports were published in 2012, 2014 and 2017. George-Ikoli expressed worry that Nigeria’s over reliance on oil,
undiversified revenue base and other economic and social factors
accounted for the poor management of its petroleum resource wealth. According to her, while Nigeria’s resource strategy is strengthened
in 2017 with the approval of the national oil and gas policies by the
Federal Executive Council, they are yet to be fully implemented. Mr Opaluwa Enebi, Research Associate, Centre for Public Policy
Alternative, said that the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB) and
other critical legislations did not become law during the period under
review. He said “the government has acknowledged Nigeria’s unhealthy
dependence on oil and gas resources. Nevertheless, the implementation of
the oil and gas strategy fell short of set targets in policy
documents’’. Enebi emphasised the need to make decisions that appear not to ignore prevailing global oil market conditions. He added that the launch of publicly available beneficial ownership
register may help address ownership and transparency issues regarding
oil and gas resources. While commending the Federal Government for taking steps to address
gas flaring through the kick off of Nigerian gas flare commercialisation
programme, he said that the sovereign wealth fund recorded growth in
the period under review. Enebi said “domestic gas utilisation improved significantly in the
period under review largely driven by demand from the power and
industrial sector, however, liquidity challenges in the power sector
threatens successes’’. Enebi pointed out that effective oversight functions of the National
Assembly had yielded positive results to the growth of the sector. According to him, some oversight activities have resulted in prosecution and conviction of some indicted persons. He noted that specific recommendations for sanctions had also been
transmitted to the executive arm of government for implementation. Enebi however decried that audit reports were yet to be addressed by the National Assembly. “Audit office is still experiencing capacity challenges as many
Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs) are still non-compliant with
submission of audit reports to Office of the Auditor General of the
Federation. “Investigation and prosecution of corruption has continued during the
review period. However, harassment of whistle blowers may threaten
effectiveness of the policy. “Critical pieces of legislation suffered setbacks during the review
period and this includes the PIGB, whistleblowers protection Act,
Witness protection program Act, Company and Allied Matters Act (CAMA),’’
Enebi stressed. (NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.