Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello has described Jesus Christ as one of the greatest unifying figures in history of mankind and signifies Salvation, Peace and Goodwill for humanity. He stated this in his special Christmas message to the people of the  State where he enjoined Kogites to see the period as a fitting time to  renew their sense of wonder at the events surrounding Christ’s Birth in  Bethlehem over 2000 years ago. Governor Bello urged them to  reflect on the joy and peace the world enjoyed on the first Christmas  where wise men from far and shepherds from nearby hills, representing  all classes of men, joined angels from heaven to herald the arrival of  Christ. He reminded everyone that the peaceful coexistence of all  Mankind was one of the principal and irreducible ideals for which Jesus  Christ came to earth, even as he invited all to continually uphold same  in their words and deeds within their available spaces. “Since
my assumption of office, the Kogi State Government has taken deliberate
steps to bring peace and unite our people across ethnic and religious
divides. This is in line with the teachings of Jesus Christ which urge
us to love our neighbour as our own self. Our ultimate goal is a Kogi
State in which every citizen can live and blossom irrespective of his or
her religious or ethnic background.” The Governor then expressed  gratitude to the people of the state for their cooperation with efforts  of his administration to engender peace among them even as he enjoined  them to continue to support his administration in perseverance his task  to bring accelerated and sustainable development to the state. “I believe that the spirit of unity, amity, prosperity and community  which has arrived Kogi State has not only come to stay, but will wax  stronger with each passing day. One thing is now very clear – we are  succeeding better together. “I again felicitate our Christian
brethren on the completion of the Chapel of Peace and Unity in
Government House, Lokoja. Last Saturday, the 21st of December, it hosted
the maiden edition of the Kogi State Christmas Carols. That festive and
joyous event was made even more memorable for holding in a bespoke
facility built under 6 months – after 28 years of the creation of the
State. “Kogi has two major faiths – Christianity and Islam. The
Government House Chapel is not only a place of worship for Christians,
it also brings balance to the system and embodies the unity, access,
welcome and inclusion which my Administration has worked hard to
guarantee all Kogites in our public institutions. We promise to deepen
these virtues in our second term until Kogites will be known as Kogites
first, before tribe or tongue or social class come to mind. “It
is therefore with a spirit of gratitude to God for what we have achieved
together in our first term while looking forward to all that we plan
and hope to achieve in our renewed mandate that I wish one and all the
best of God’s blessings this holiday season,” he concluded. Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.