Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos is expected to be the guest of
honour as Omega Power Ministries (OPM) performs the groundbreaking of
its free school for the less privileged children in Lagos on Friday. The General Overseer of OPM and the President of OPM Foundation,
Apostle Chibuzor Chinyere, disclosed this on Thursday in an interview
with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). Chinyere said that the primary and secondary school when completed in
2020 would admit about 1,000 pupils and students from less privileged
families. He said the Lagos school would be the 14th on the list of OPM existing free schools nationwide. The OPM founder explained that the aim was to ensure that children of
the less privileged in the country have access to free and quality
education within a safe learning environment. “Our schools are for the less privileged children all over the world
and as such we will also go to West African countries like Niger, Benin
Republic and Ghana. “We will also go to Kenya, Burundi, and other African countries
before we go to Asia and other continents, but our vision is to cover
the whole world. “There is usually this fear of managing population of intakes, but I
can tell you that before I bought a bus for our school in Abia, some
children trek for over two hours to come to school every morning and
work another two hours home. “These are children between the ages of 7 and 10; their parents don’t
have money to give them for transportation but God finally provided a
school bus for us and we are using it to convey them. “I was scared when we started it 10 years ago but because I was doing
something right before God, the resources started coming in. “It is worthy of note that we give four pairs of school uniforms free  to each person, free sandals and free feeding in all our school and  Lagos will not be an exception,” Chinyere said. According to him, the students and pupils are also given beverages,
Milk and Milo, on regular occasion to compliment the schools free
feeding programme. The cleric also said that a programme titled “Something Good Must
Happen in Lagos State” between Dec. 13 and Dec. 15 to prepare the minds
of Christians ahead of Christmas. “It will be an opportunity to tell those in Lagos to put their trust
in God because man can fail them but God cannot fail or disappoint
them.” NAN reports that OPM currently operates 13 free primary and secondary schools in Rivers, Bayelsa and Abia states. It would be recalled that the National Association of Nigerian  Student (NANS) had in June honoured the OPM founder with an award of  Icon of Free Education in Nigeria because of his contributions in the  education sector. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.