No fewer than 119 cassava farmers in Edo North are to benefit from
the Federal Government’s Anchor Borrowers Scheme which has been launched
in the senatorial district. The farmers make up the first batch of beneficiaries of the CBN’s
scheme which will be anchored in the district by two indigenous agro
companies, the Elephant Group and H2Foods Nigeria Limited. The Anchor Borrowers Scheme is a programme initiated by the Federal
Government to link food processing companies to small holder farmers in
rural areas and is being implemented by the Central Bank of Nigeria
(CBN). A statement issued by the Chief Executive Officer of one of the
anchors, H2AFoods, Dr. Tony Bello, in Abuja said that the agro companies
were excited to improve and transform lives in the senatorial district. He pledged to elevate cassava to the status of cash crop and to
package it into a delicious and nutritious consumer food for the world. According to Bello, if potato and maize could be transformed into
snacks in America and Europe, it is high time to apply proven scientific
and engineering principles to make cassava a cash cow for millions of
smallholder farmers in Nigeria and Africa at large. “We are excited about having the booths on the ground in Auchi and
Ubiaja to begin our journey of improving lives and transforming foods in
Nigeria, starting with Edo. “In our strategic partnerships with both private and public sector
and institutional investors, we are prepared to elevate cassava into a
cash crop for export to the United States and Europe. “By leveraging our expertise in food science and technology, we shall
transfer to transform cassava into delicious and nutritious packaged
consumer food products for the world,” he said. The leader of the benefiting farmers, Alhaji Mohammed Momodu said
that the traditional leaders and all relevant stakeholders had worked
tirelessly to bring private sector-led programme to the district. Also, the CEO of Elephant Group, Mr Tunji Owoeye said they were proud of the support of the CBN and Edo
State government in facilitating the transaction in support of our
geo-cooperative farmers. Owoeye expressed gratitude for the continued support of Governor
Godwin Obaseki of Edo, the CBN Governor, Mr Godwin Emiefele and African
Man of the Year, Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, President of the African
Development Bank (AfDB). He said that the farmers were confident of having their dreams which
is to transform cassava into great tasting food products come to pass. It could be recalled that Governor Obaseki announced the partnership
between Edo State Government, H2AFoods and Elephant Group In April,
2018. Obaseki and Emiefele expressed investment interest to scale-up
cassava during the launching of Edo State Oil Palm Programme held in
Benin City. (NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.