The  popularly acclaimed human rights lawyer and formerly unsuccessful  opposition candidate for governor of Ekiti state, Femi Falana, has  boarded the free-publicity train, full of those seeking personal media  attention in claiming the president is planning a third term in office. To repeat: All and every claim that is made that suggest President  Muhammadu Buhari will stand for a third term in office is false. To reiterate, the President reminds all of those who wish it were
otherwise, whether because they want a third term, or because they seek
to make false claims for the purposes of their own publicity of the
statement made on 2nd October 2019, which is repeated in full, below: “The Presidency wishes to correct internet-based gossip and uninformed
media commentary regarding presidential term limits, given credence by
so-called support groups, staging street demonstrations asking President
Muhammadu Buhari to do a third term. “There are no
circumstances – nor set of circumstances – under which President Buhari
may seek to amend the Constitution regarding the two-term term limit on
holding office as President. “President Buhari intends to serve
his full second elected term in office, ending 2023 – and then there
shall be a general election in which he will not be a candidate. “There is not even the faintest possibility that this will change. “It is important to note that there was a past attempt to change the
Constitution to allow for the then incumbent president to stand for a
third term. That attempt was wrong, unconstitutional – and rightly
rebuffed. No such attempt will happen under this President”. President Buhari is a democrat. He respects the Constitution. Any
activity aimed at altering the two-term limit will not succeed and shall
never have his time nor support.” The President will have
nothing more to say on this matter – apart from to repeat this
statement, ad infinitum – that he will not be seeking, accepting, nor
standing for a third term. Garba Shehu Senior Special Assistant to the President (Media and Publicity) December 23, 2019 Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.