Network of University Legal Aid Institutions Nigeria (NULAI) says it
provided legal aid services to no fewer than 436 pre-trial detainees of
the Kuje Correctional Centre in 2018 and 2019. NULAI, a non-government organisation (NGO), said the move was to decongest the prison. Senior Programme Director, NULAI, Mrs Odinakaonye Lagi, said this, on
Thursday, during an event held in Abuja in honour of the group’s
pro-bono lawyers who were part of the “Reforming Pre-trial Detention in
Kuje Prison Project.” Lagi said that NULAI Nigeria had in collaboration with a consortium
of partners and with support from United States Department of State’s
Bureau for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL)
launched the project. “This is to support the Nigerian government’s implementation of
Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) and achieve a significant
reduction in the size of the pre-trial detention population in Kuje
Correctional Centre. She said that the project was a two-year project which commenced in 2018. “Reform Kuje is a two-year project that commenced in 2018 to support
the institutionalisation and operationalisation of a new Nigerian
Correctional Information Management System (NCIMS) and Case Management
Module (CMM). “It is also to provide legal aid services to more than 250 detainees
per annum awaiting trial in Kuje Correctional Centre, and advance
effective coordination, sharing of information, and documentation to
enhance the NCIMS.” She further said that available data as at October 2019 for Kuje
Correctional Centre recorded 1, 284 inmates enrolled on the NCIMS. “A case manager tracks an average number of 650 detainees processing
through the courts monthly; case manager identified 163 cases with no
adjournment dates as far back as December 2017. “Pretrial detainee ratio remains at 80 per cent at each snapshot; however, monthly inflow and outflow shows equal ratio.” The programme director further noted that the project established a
Law Clinics’ Partnership for Kuje Prison (LCPK) composed of law clinics
from University of Abuja, Nile University and Baze University. “Through the LCPK, Law students track key indicators and monitor the
effectiveness of the Kuje Pre-Trial Detention Case Management System and
implementation of the ACJA. “This is done as law clinics and law students in collaboration with
Legal Aid Council of Nigeria and with support from pro-bono lawyers
provide legal services to pre-trial detainees at the prison.” Also speaking, Prof. Ernest Ojukwu, President, Network of University
Legal Aid Institutions (NULAI), said that the problem with the
correction centres was that the facilities had not been made for the
number of people there. “So you have an overflow of people who are locked up that are using facilities made for a smaller percentage of people.” He, therefore, called for government’s efforts to ensure correction centres across the country were decongested. On his part, Prof. Chidi Odinkalu, Senior Managing Legal Officer,
Open Society Justice Initiative said “in absolute numbers, prisons are
not that congested. “So you have got a capacity of close to about 60, 000 and the number of prisoners is about 62, 000.”(NAN) Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.