Justice H.I.O Oshomah of the Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, has convicted and sentenced Williams Greatman (aka Fubara Duke) to six months imprisonment for forging a Certificate of Occupancy in order to stand as a Surety for a suspect. In the same court, another Judge, Justice M.L. Abubakar also convicted and sentenced Keuseph Douglas Abi to six months imprisonment for forging a Certificate of Occupancy to secure bail of a suspect. Greatman was arraigned on Thursday, December 12, 2019 by the Port Harcourt Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC on two- count charges bordering on forgery contrary to Section 1(2)(c) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act Cap M17 of the Revised Edition (Laws of the Federation of Nigeria), 2007. Count one read: That you WILLIAMS GREATMAN ALIAS FUBARA DUKE on or about the 1st day of August, 2017 at the Federal High Court, Port Harcourt within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, did forge a document, to wit; RIVERS STATE OF NIGERIA CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY No. 51 in the name of Fubara Duke with intent that it may be acted upon as genuine which you knew to be false and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 1(2)(c) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act CAP M17 of the Revised Edition (Laws of the Federation of Nigeria), 2007. The defendant changed his plea from not guilty to guilty based on a plea bargain agreement. In view of his plea, prosecuting counsel, U.D Asueizibe prayed the court to convict him accordingly.Counsel to the defendant, Ebimoboere Peresei did not oppose Asueizibe’s prayers.Justice Oshomah sentenced him to six months imprisonment. Williams ran into trouble when the Commission received a petition from the Deputy Registrar of the Federal High Court, Port Harcourt alleging that the convict presented a forged Certificate of Occupancy in securing the bail of a suspect in court. Investigations revealed that the convict specialized in forging documents of all kinds to enable him stand as Surety for defendants before the court. On his part, Abi was arraigned on Tuesday, December, 10, 2019 by the Port Harcourt’s Zonal Office of the EFCC, on one- count charge bordering on forgery contrary to Section 6 of Advance Fee Fraud and Other Fraud-Related Offences Act 2006 and Punishable under Section 1(3) of the same Act. The count read: “That you, Keuseph Douglas Abi on or about the 10th of May, 2016, in Port Harcourt, within the jurisdiction of this honorable court, had in your possession a fraudulent Certificate of Occupancy number 021853 belonging to Adokiye Samuel Briggs which you knew to be false and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 6 of Advance Fee Fraud and Other Fraud Related Offences Act 2006 and Punishable under Section 1(3) of the same Act. The defendant pleaded ‘’guilty’’ to the one- count charge preferred against him. Justice Abubakar convicted and sentenced him to six months imprisonment with an option of fine of N100,000( One Hundred Thousand Naira only). Media & Publicity Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA