Banks customers on Monday commended the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for its move in slashing various banks charges. According to  The News Agency  of Nigeria (NAN) reports customers in Abuja on Monday described the development as the  right step in the right direction. On Sunday, the apex bank in a new  guidelines anounced the downward review of most charges and fees for  banking services, other financial, and non-bank financial institutions,  with effect from January 1, 2020. Among the charges, CBN said bank customers will now pay N10
for electronic transfers below N5,000, and N25 for electronic transfer
between N5,000 and N50,000. Only electronic transfer above N50,000 will
attract N50 charge. Previously, bank customers pay N50 charge for electronic transfers below N500,000. The guide also slashed charges for cash withdrawal via
Other bank’s ATM to “maximum of N35 after the third withdrawal within
the same month” from “N65 after the third withdrawal within the same
month”. A bank customer, Mr James Onumah said that the CBN’s directive was a new year gift to the all bank customers. Onumah said most Nigerian banks were still characterised
with some inefficiencies yet they charge customers for services they
didn’t provide. He explained that withdrawal charges of about N65 being taken from bank users by banks was exploitative and uncalled for. Mrs Hadiza Maikarfi said the announcement was a cheering news for her at the weekend. Maikarfi said various bank charges before the reduction
were too high for customers like her could bear urging the apex bank to
still review them downward. According to her, these charges can discourage people from
getting involved in financial services thereby affecting financial
inclusion being promoted by the bank. Sani Nura, another bank customer urged CBN to supervise banks to ensure the directive was carried out and implemented fully. Nura added that the bank’s charges reduction by the apex
bank was timely due to the current hardship being experienced by the
citizens. Funke Akin told NAN that she had been celebrating over the reduction as anounced by CBN. Akin said she was particularly happy over the removal of
card maintenance charges adding that she never understood the essence of
such charges by banks. According to Mr Isaac Okorafor, the bank’s Director,  Corporate
Communications Department, the guidelines will take effect from Jan. 1,
2020. Okorafor, while briefing newsmen said the step was in furtherance of
the bank’s quest to make financial services more accessible and
affordable to various stakeholders in the economy. He explained that some major highlights of the new guidelines
included the removal of Card Maintenance Fee (CAMF) on all cards linked
to current accounts. He said there would be a maximum of one Naira per mille for customer
induced debit transactions to third parties and transfers or lodgments
to the customers’ account in other banks on current accounts only. Okorafor explained that it all involves reduction in the amount
payable for cash withdrawals from other banks’ Automated Teller Machines
as Remote-on-Us transactions. The director said the reduction was from N65 to N35 after the third withdrawal within one month. According to him, other reductions include Advance Payment Guarantee
(APG), now pegged at maximum of one per cent of the APG value in the
first year and 0.5 per cent for subsequent years on contingent
liabilities. On debit card charges, Okorafor said that the new guide stipulated
that a one-off charge of N1,000 applied to the issuance of cards,
irrespective of card type regular or premium. He noted that the same one-off charge of N1,000 applied for the
replacement of debit cards at the customer’s instance for lost or
damaged cards. According to Okorafor, upon expiry of existing cards, customers are
to pay the same one-off charge of N1,000 irrespective of card type and
no charge should be required for pre-paid card loading or unloading. He explained that the current NIBSS Instant Payments (NIP) charges
applied to use of Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD),
purchase with cash-back would attract a charge of N100 per N20,000
subject to cumulative N60,000 daily withdrawal. The CBN spokesman noted that for cards linked to savings account, the
maintenance fee had been reduced to a maximum of N50 per quarter from
N50 per month amounting to only N200 per annum instead of N600. The director hinted that there would be no more charges for
reactivation or closure of accounts such as savings, current and
domiciliary accounts while status enquiry at the request of the customer
like confirmation letter, letter of non-indebtedness and reference
letter would now attract a fee of N500 per request. “On Current Account Maintenance Fee (CAMF), the guide expressly
stated that this would be applicable only to current accounts in respect
of customer-induced debit transactions to third parties and debit
transfers and lodgments to the customer’s account in another bank. “It emphasised that CAMF is not applicable to Savings Accounts. “CBN carried out the review of the guide, which also prescribes
charges permissible for Other Financial Institutions and non-bank
financial institutions, in order to align with market developments. “To guard against excess, unapproved or arbitrary charges by banks
and other financial institutions, the guide stipulates a penalty of
N2,000,000 per infraction or as may be determined by the CBN from time
to time for financial institutions that breach any provision of the
guide. “The guide also emphasised that failure by any bank to comply with
CBN’s directive in respect of any infraction shall attract a further
penalty of N2,000,000 daily until the directive is complied with or as
may be determined by the CBN from time to time. ” He said that the CBN,  has directed banks to log every complaint
received from their customers into the Consumer Complaints Management
System (CCMS) in addition to generating a unique reference code for each
complaint lodged, which must be given to the customer. According to him, failure to log and provide the code to the customer  will amount to a breach and is sanctionable with a penalty of  N1,000,000 per breach. NAN 