The Department of Petroleum Resources in Cross River has assured
residents in the state and beyond that there was enough product to serve
for the Christmas season and beyond. DPR Operations Controller in the state, Mr Sircham Mohammed-Musa,
gave the assurance on Thursday in Calabar during surveillance to some
filling stations to ensure compliance with DPR guidelines. Mohammed-Musa explained that the surveillance was carried out to
ensure that filling stations operating in the state were selling at the
government approved price and also dispensing the product accurately. He told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) while inspecting Mainland oil
and gas depot that the agency had issued warning to marketers to desist
from any form of hoarding or face sanctions. “This is the kind of assurance we want to give to Nigerians because
most of them believe that once it is end of the year, there will be some
sort of artificial scarcity. “This time, we are assuring Nigerians that the depots in Calabar are
filled with petroleum product to serve all categories of consumers. “As we speak, we have over 100 million litres in stock and this will
serve all consumers during the Christmas season and beyond. Some vessels
are currently at harbour, waiting for space to discharge the product. “During surveillance today, we found out that some stations were
selling at N142 per litre as against the government approved price of
N145. This is why we go on surveillance and one of the benefits of
deregulation. The price is down because the product is available,” he
said. On hoarding, he said that DPR was out to ensure that any product that
is lifted from the depot gets to its final destination to serve the
consumers. He said that from the DPR assessment, petroleum marketers and depot
owners were cooperating in ensuring stability of price and availability
of the product. “We are assuring Nigerians that there should be no panic buying in
their minds; we are here to ensure that the product gets to all
consumers at the government approved price,” he said. At the NNPC filling station, a buyer, Mr Chike Amadi, told NAN that
the surveillance by DPR would make filling station owners to adhere to
standard. Amadi said it was a thing of joy to have the product still sold at
the government approved price without any panic buying or fears of
artificial scarcity. Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.