The Federal Government has assured all staff of Federal Universities
that the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS)
will efficiently address all genuine concerns and peculiarities in the
institutions. The Accountant General of the Federation (AGF), Mr Ahmed Idris,
stated this in a statement signed by Mr Henshaw Ogubike, the Deputy
Director (Press and Public Relations), of the agency on Tuesday in
Abuja. Idris was responding to concerns raised by the Committee of Vice-Chancellors of Federal Universities, when they visited him. He gave an assurance  that all rules and peculiarities in the
universities that were recognised by the government would be
accommodated and implemented through IPPIS. “All the peculiarities shall be stated, all the rules of engagement
shall equally be stated; we are ready to go by the rules of engagement. “All the rules that are recognised by the government in the
universities, we will go by these rules, none will be set aside,” he
said. Idris said the objection by the Academic Staff  Union of
 Universities to  IPPIS was unfounded as the Federal Government had,
during many meetings with the universities, assured them that IPPIS was
not to take away the autonomy of the institutions. He said the aim was “to make the management of personnel more efficient”. He said the practice where universities recruited staff not minding
whether their budget would accommodate such employment was responsible
for the issue of shortfall in personnel revenue. Idris explained that IPPIS would help the universities solve the
problem of shortfall in personnel revenue as the recruitment and
remuneration of staff would be more efficient. The accountant-general said that at the end of the last enrollment of
university personnel on IPPIS, a total of 8, 146 academic and 86, 844
non-academic staff  enrolled. He said the figures represented more than 70 per cent of the staff of federal universities. Idris, however, commended the vice-chancellors for the initiative to
reach out to the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation on
the contentious issue of enrollment of university staff on IPPIS. He solicited the cooperation of the vice-chancellors with the
government as the implementation of IPPIS and other financial reform
initiatives aimed at entrenching probity and transparency in the system
had come to stay. Earlier,  Prof. Muhammad nBello, the Chairman of the Committee of
Vice-Chancellors and Vice-Chancellor of Bayero University, Kano,
observed that the just concluded enrollment raised some issues and
requested that the AGF accountant to help resolve them. Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.