The Executive Secretary of the National Human Rights
Commission (NHRC) Tony Ojukwu Esq said the 2020 NHRC/United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) Returnees
Protection Monitoring Project will beam its search light on the Protection of
IDPs and other Vulnerable Groups (Population of Concern) who are incarcerated
in Correction Facilities and other detention facilities in the North East. Ojukwu stated this
during the End of Year/2020 Proposal Finalization meeting of the Project
organized by the NHRC and the UNHCR in Yola, Adamawa State. He said the 2020 project will focus on access to justice and
protection of IDPs and other vulnerable groups in detention facilities, noting
that some of them are suffering double jeopardy. “Despite their situation of
displacement, they are needlessly detained without due process for minor
offences”. He commended the effort of the Federal government and the
military in combating violent extremism in the North East which he said has
been on steady decline since 2015. He added that “we no more have territories
under the captivity of Boko haram, the number of insurgencies related indiscriminate
arrest has also greatly reduced, with increase in the number of displaced
persons returning to their communities”. However, the human rights Executive Secretary called for a
more concerted effort by all the stakeholders with protection mandate to continue
to work as a team to improve on the protection needs of the population of
concern, while urging them to strengthen the referral pathway and also speed up
their response pattern. On the issue of the reintegration of repentant Boko Haram
into the communities, Ojukwu said there is need to prepare the minds of the
people in such communities to take them back and give them a sense of
belonging, adding that if they are properly reintegrated into the communities,
it will discourage them from going back to the old bad habits. He used the medium to commend the continuous support of UNHCR
since 2015, noting that the project has made lives meaningful for the
population of concern as it has successfully addressed numerous human rights
and humanitarian challenges of this vulnerable group over a period of time. The human rights monitors expressed satisfaction at the successes recorded despite the difficult terrain they have to work in, saying they will build on the successes recorded in 2019 and do more in 2020. NHRC Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA