Bishop Matthew Audu, the Catholic Bishop of Lafia Diocese has urged
Nigerians to always rely on the grace of God in their endeavours for
them to succeed in life. The Bishop gave the admonishment on Sunday in a mass in at ST Peter
and Paul Catholic Parish Church Lafia in honour of priest of the church,
Mathew Ofoku who celebrated his silver jubilee in priesthood. Audu said that the grace of God was sufficient enough and capable of helping people surmount their challenges in life. He noted that given the increase rate of problems in the country there was need for everybody to seek God’s intervention. He said that it was the grace of God that kept the celebrant moving in the vineyard for 25 years. He added that he worked closely with the priest in the last 25 years
and noted that he had impacted so much on the church and its members. “On behalf of the clergy, religious and lay faithful of Catholic
Diocese of Lafia, I congratulate you on the occasion of your 25th
Priestly anniversary. “The entire faithful are happy to cerebrate you because of your
immense contribution to the growth of the diocese,” the Bishop added. He therefore urged the celebrant to remain steadfast in order to end well in the vineyard of the Lord. Similarly, Gov. Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State, represented by his
Deputy, Mr Emmanuel Akabe, congratulated the celebrant for his 25 years
in the vineyard of the Lord. He said government was happy that the role being played by clergymen was responsible for the peace and unity in the society. Sule said government would continue to partner with the clerics and
urged them to continue to pray for the administration to succeed. On his parts, Ofoku, thanked God for sustaining him throughout the years in the vineyard. “Priesthood journey is not easy, but we thank God, for his grace and mercy that is still keeping us going,” he added. The celebrant was ordained as a Priest on Sep. 6, 1994. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.