The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), Eket Field Office, has
sealed the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) filling
station in Uyo for discharging petroleum products while selling the
products to motorists. The Operations Controller of DPR in Akwa Ibom, Mr Tamunoiminabo
Kinsgley-Sundaye, disclosed to this Journalists while on routine
surveillance in Uyo on Thursday. He expressed dismay that the filling station was discharging
petroleum products and at same time dispensing to motorists, a
development he described as a serious offence and unsafe. “The NNPC filling station was caught, some hours ago, discharging and
at the same time dispensing to the public, the place was crowded with
vehicles and buyers, which is a serious offence,” he said. Kingsley-Sunday said that filling stations must end discharging
before opening doors to sell to the public, warning they must not be
discharging and dispensing at the same time. He explained that the risk involved in discharging and dispensing to
the public involved was enormous, adding that 70 per cent of fire
incident at filling stations was due to discharging of petroleum
products at filling stations. “We want to see minimum people who are really concerned with
discharge operation, but surprisingly, NNPC does not know simple safety
requirements. “We asked the manager of that station if he knew that it was unsafe
to discharge fuel and dispense at the same time, the manager said he was
not aware. He said that the manager and members of staff of NNPC, as a retail
outlet, would be referred to appropriate trainers to acquire
requirements to run filling stations in a safe manner. According to him, this is required by safety standard and regulation. Reacting to the development, Mr Augustine Effiong, the Manager of
NNPC filling station admitted to the unsafe measure, saying that he was
told to discharge in the morning and evening but not in the afternoon. “We were told to discharge in the morning hours, provided it was not the dispensing line we were discharging to,” he said. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.