Oil prices rose more than 20 per cent this year but there were no
sharp spikes and crude futures barely sniffed $70 a barrel despite
attacks on the world’s biggest oil producer, sanctions that crippled
crude exports of two OPEC members and gigantic supply cuts from big oil
producing countries. The price gains in crude oil benchmarks were all in the first quarter
of 2019, even as the next several months featured supply shocks that in
the past would probably have propelled crude past the $100 mark. Prices are likely to remain rangebound in 2020 as swelling supplies,
particularly from the United States, offset cuts from the Organization
of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and weakening worldwide demand,
brokers and analysts said. U.S. crude oil CLc1 is on track to end 2019 roughly 35% higher. Since
the end of March, it is up just 3%, after rallying early in the year
after the United States introduced sanctions on Venezuela. Brent has
gained 26%, but is off by 1% since the first quarter. Investors and analysts say U.S. production and weak demand kept
prices under control. The United States is on track to be a net
petroleum exporter on an annual basis for the first time in 2020. Output
is expected to average 13.2 million bpd, an increase of nearly a
million bpd from 2019. “Demand growth cratered while U.S. production continued to barrel
along at high rates and geopolitical risk eased,” Bob McNally, president
of Rapidan Energy Group. “And now, at the end of the year, weary investors are looking to next year and seeing a tsunami of oil.” Investor concern over peak oil demand is expected to weigh on prices
next year, particularly as the urgency around action against climate
change has increased. Also, a long-term resolution of the U.S.-China
trade war seems elusive, keeping market watchers wary of predicting
energy demand growth in the world’s two largest economies. “There is growing concern around the long-term sustainability of U.S.
oil and gas companies for investors in an ESG (environmental, social
and governance) driven world,” said Greg Sharenow, portfolio manager at
PIMCO, who co-manages more than $15 billion in commodity assets. The U.S. Energy Information Administration expects average crude oil
prices will be lower in 2020 than in 2019 because of rising inventories.
Outside the United States, production is expected to continue to grow
in Brazil, Norway, and Guyana. Prices did spike, but only briefly after drone attacks on Saudi
Arabia’s biggest oil facility and U.S. sanctions on Venezuela and Iran.
September attacks on Aramco facilities briefly pushed Brent above $72 a
barrel, but within 10 days, oil prices sank back as Aramco brought
production back online. Notably, the market barely wavered in its view of where prices would
end up. Implied volatility, a sign of how the market prices future
gyrations in WTI and Brent CLATMIV LCOATMIV futures, was largely muted
in 2019 after a see-saw 2018, a sign that investors focused on broader
supply trends. Currently in Social Media platform of NTA, Largest TV in Africa. Iam a graduate of Mass Communication with special interest on social media and Online Editor and a Reporter.