President Muhammadu Buhari will depart Abuja on Tuesday for Aswan,  Egypt to attend the Aswan Forum designed to set “An Agenda for  Sustainable Peace and Development in Africa.” The president’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi
Adesina, confirmed this development in a statement in Abuja on Monday. The Forum which holds between Dec. 11 and Dec. 12, is an
initiative to address the interconnections between peace and development
in Africa while promoting Africa-led solutions through strengthening
policies and practices. “The initiative is being launched by the Egyptian President Abdel
Fattah el-Sisi in his capacity as the Chairman of the African Union (AU)
and as an advocate of Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Development in
Africa – a recurring theme of his tenure as the AU Chairman. “It is also grounded in the AU’s Agenda 2063: The Africa We Want, and the search for African solutions to African problems. “The gathering is expected to bring together heads of state and
government, leaders from regional and international organisations,
financial institutions, private sector and civil societies. ”(Others are) scholars, visionaries and prominent experts for
action-oriented discussions on the threats, challenges and
opportunities. “It is also expected to end with a Declaration on the theme of the Forum and become an annual event,’’ he said. It would be recalled that the Speaker of Egypt’s House of
Representatives, Ali Abdel Aal had delivered el-Sisi’s message to Buhari
in Abuja on Oct. 28 inviting him to the inaugural Aswan Forum. According to the presidential aide, the President will be accompanied
by Governors Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa, Godwin Obaseki of Edo and Mai
Mala Buni of Yobe State. Others are: Minister of Defence, Gen. Bashir Magashi (Rtd); Minister
of State, Foreign Affairs, Amb. Zubairu Dada; National Security Adviser,
Maj.-Gen. Babagana Monguno (Rtd); and the Director-General, National
Intelligence Agency, Amb. Ahmed Abubakar. Buhari is expected back in Abuja on Friday. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.