By Abdulrazak Jimoh Former Vice President and the Presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar said he will concede defeat if he lost in the forth coming elections provided the elections are adjudged as free fair and credible. The former VP was speaking at a
town hall platform tagged The Candidates,  jointly organised by Nigerian Television
Authority and Kadria media. Atiku Abubakar said it is not his first time of losing an election and the February elections
can’t be different. #NgTheCandidates If I Lose I Will Accept The Outcome of The 2019 Presidential Election pic.twitter.com/iH09nS0Q8Q pic.twitter.com/hpPQBhTAJ2 — NTA News (@NTANewsNow) January 31, 2019  He explained his role as Former vice president and strongly denied using his office to enrich
himself. He clarified his ownership of Intel
saying as a custom officer the law at that time allowed
him to purchase private shares. #  The PDP Presidential candidate also denied monopolizing the business as speculated in the media.He said there was firece competition against Intel mentioning some of the players. In the same vein, the Vice Presidential candidate of the PDP Peter Obi was quizzed on his role as former governor of Anambra state where he was alleged to have used government funds to acquire shares in breweries. Obi however denied the allegation saying he
had never enriched himself with government funds rather he invested government
funds that ended up yielding so much that he was able to leave a record of 52
billions in government pulse. The PDP Presidential
candidate and the vice Presidential also spoke on different issues and their plans for
the country The PDP government if
elected they said will reposition the civil service and
automate the public service to reduce
the  corruption. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.