The Idependent National Electoral Commission at the early hours of Februari 16th 2019, announced the posponment of the 2019 general elections by one week. INEC said that elections were postpond due to logistics reasons. But INEC’s action has drawn a lot of reactions from across the nation. And President Muhammadu Buhari is a statement expresses his displeasure as regards the postponment of elections. Here is President Buhari’s statement; “I am deeply disappointed that despite the long notice given and our preparations both locally and internationally, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) postponed the Presidential and National Assembly elections within hours of its commencement. Many Nigerians have traveled to various locations to exercise their right to vote, and international observers are gathered. INEC themselves have given assurances, day after day and almost hour after hour that they are in complete readiness for the elections.  We and all our citizens believed them. This administration has ensured that we do not interfere in any way with the work of INEC except to ensure that all funds were released to the commission. We now urge INEC to ensure not only that materials already distributed are safe and do not get into wrong hands, but that everything is done to avoid the lapses that resulted in this unfortunate postponement, and ensure a free and fair election on the rescheduled dates. While I reaffirm my strong commitment to the independence, neutrality of the electoral umpire and the sanctity of the electoral process and ballot, I urge all political stakeholders and Nigerians to continue to rally round INEC at this trying national moment in our democratic journey. I, therefore, appeal to all Nigerians to refrain from all civil disorder and remain peaceful, patriotic and united to ensure that no force or conspiracy derail our democratic development. I have decided to move back to Abuja to ensure that the 14.00 hrs meeting called by INEC with all stakeholders is successful.” INEC says elections will now hold on February 23rd for presidential and national assembly elections and March 9th for Governorship and house of assembly elections. Innocent Korie is an ICT and Project Management Professional with very good flair in  business development,  and Online media management.