The Yobe Committee on Re-settlement, Re-construction and
Rehabilitation of displaced persons has distributed 85 sewing and 60
grinding machines to vulnerable persons in the state. The recipients were drawn from four Local Government Areas of the state. Alhaji Abubakar Aliyu, Yobe Deputy governor and Chairman of the
committee, said the machines were provided for economic empowerment of
the vulnerable persons affected by the Boko Haram terrorists insurgency. The deputy governor, who was represented by Alhaji Musa Jidawa,
Permanent Secretary, State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), said the
equipment would improve the economic status and resilience among the
people. He said most of the beneficiaries lost their trades and means of
livelihood to insurgency and needed support for a sustainable means of
livelihood. Three Local Government Areas of Bursari, Tarmuwa and Nangere each got
20 sets of sewing machines and 15 sets of grinding machines for
beneficiaries while 25 sewing machine and 15 grinding machines was given
to beneficiaries in Fune Local Government Area. According to the chairman, the committee carefully selects female disabled persons who were provided with the machines. He also said that centers in the state including Business Education
and Women Development centers were provided with the equipment to
promote skill acquisition in the communities. Abubakar charged the beneficiaries not to sell the materials,
advising that they make good use of them to recover their  economic
losses. Alhaji Zanna Abacha, Chairman, Bursari Local Government Area,
commended the committee for providing the people with sustainable means
of livelihood. “We appreciate the food assistance and the means of livelihood provided for our people by the committee” he said. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA