INEC in night meeting over Presidential, NASS elections By Emmanuel OloniruhaAbuja, Feb. 16, 2019(NAN) The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is still meeting over the Presidential and National Assembly elections scheduled for Saturday elections as at 1.30 a.m. Available informaton to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) is that INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, and National Commissioners are present at the meeting that started since Friday evening. Though there was no official information regarding the agenda of the meeting, unconfirmed reports said said the commission was meeting with observers on the possibility of shifting the elections. The Cheif Press Secretary to INEC Chairman, Mr Rotimi Oyekanmi, who refused to disclosr the details of the meeting, said that the decision would be made known. “I can confirm to you that the INEC Chairma and the 12 national commissioners are in the meeting. ” Decisions have been taken and you will be addressed later,” Oyekanmi said. At the gate of the commission headquarters were journalists, who had no access to the main offices, but waiting to be briefed on the outcome of the meeting. NAN corespondent also reports that some of the buses hired for the transportation of the election materials were already at the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) Office of INEC at Karu as at last Friday night. NAN also reports that access roads leading to the national collation centre for presidential election, the International Conference Centre, (ICC), Abuja, was already cordoned off. The national elections are expected to hold at 119,973 polling units across the country while collation of results will take place in 8,809 Registration Areas or Wards, 774 Local Government Areas and 36 States and the FCT. It is however not sure if the commission will continue with the elections as scheduled.(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA