Dear Nigerians, 1.Finally, we have reached the eve of the rescheduled first round of this year’s general elections. 2.     Tomorrow, the polls
open. Tomorrow, we affirm that Nigeria stands as a democracy and that no
worldly hand can deter us from this wise and fitting path we have
chosen for ourselves. 3.     While democracy is
the most beneficial way to select a nation’s leaders, it is far from the
easiest thing to achieve and maintain. 4.     It requires a
combination of patience, tolerance, compassion, diligence, wisdom and
hope. These traits exist in us the Nigerian people. Because of who we
are, democracy has the chance to flourish in this land. 5.     Thus, I commend all
of you for your patience and peaceful conduct so far during this
electoral season and especially during this intervening week following
the postponement of the February 16 elections. 6.     Many were worried
and thought the worst might happen. You proved them wrong by showing
that you are a great people with an abiding love for peace, democracy
and the unity of our country. 7.     According to the
daily INEC public briefings given this week, the Electoral Commission
says it is ready and fully prepared to conduct the election in a free,
fair and transparent manner. 8.     I believe INEC realises the profound and weighty duty that rests upon it. 9.     We must cast aside
doubt and have faith that INEC will rise to the occasion. We must
believe and encourage INEC to fulfill and honour this responsibility it
owes to our country. 10.     As your President, I
hereby ask all Nigerians with voting cards to participate in defining
the future of our nation by exercising your democratic rights tomorrow. I
urge you to go out and vote. 11.     I say this because
elections are the cornerstone of representative governance. And voting
constitutes the highest and best expression of the sovereign will of the
people to choose the government that best represents them. 12.     It is only upon the
freely expressed will of the people that government truly dedicated to
the welfare, rights and interests of the people can be founded. 13.     Do not allow anyone to discourage you from the exercise of your rights as citizens and voters tomorrow. 14.     To vote means that you believe in Nigeria and the excellent things the future holds for this nation and its people. 15.     No matter our
political leanings, we all believe in Nigeria, in the noble principles
for which it stands and in the values we strive for our beloved nation
to uphold. 16.     All who are able,
must vote so that we may better perfect this democracy and continue to
build the greater nation we seek. 17.     Do not be afraid of
rumours of violence and unrest. Our security agencies have worked
diligently to ensure that adequate security measures are in place. 18.     You will be able to vote in an atmosphere of openness and peace, devoid of fear from threat or intimidation. 19.     International and
domestic monitors and observers are assured of their safety and freedom
of movement needed to perform their important functions. 20.     As we thank
domestic monitors and observers for their contributions to our
democracy, we also thank the international groups for the friendship and
concern they have demonstrated to our nation. 21.     We appreciate their efforts in encouraging us to further entrench and strengthen our democracy. 22.     Tomorrow is an
encounter with history in which you, the people, shall affirm your
collective belief in our national greatness and in our future. 23.     I ask that you embrace and hold on to the importance of the moment soon to be upon us. 24.   Honour your civic
duty as voters by going to the polls tomorrow to vote for the government
of your choice, for the government that will lead Nigeria toward its
finest destiny. 25.     As citizens there
is no greater duty than this and no greater honour. Tomorrow, I know you
will once again make Nigeria proud of its people. May God bless our democracy and forever bless the Federal Republic of Nigeria. 