The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) says it has
registered over 1.8 million candidates for the 2019 Unified Tertiary
Matriculation Examination (UTME). The Head, Media and Information of the board, Dr Fabian Benjamin,
disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on
Thursday in Lagos. NAN reports that registration of candidates for the all Computer
Based Test (CBT) commenced on Feb. 10 and terminated on Feb. 21. Benjamin said that the registration was a huge success, adding that
there were no hitches at all across the various accredited registration
centres nationwide. “We have concluded the registration and we recorded over 1.8 million candidates for the UTME this year. “Registration closed on Feb. 21, when we stopped the pin vending for the exercise. “However, some candidates who had acquired the pin but were unable to
register before Feb. 21, due to one reason or the other, were allowed
to do so till 12 midnight, Feb. 25. “The registration finally closed on Feb. 25,  he said. The JAMB spokesman dismissed rumours in some quarters that candidates
could start printing their examination notification slip from March 2. “This is misleading and absolutely not correct. “Let me sound it clearly that the board has not come up with any date
for both the examination and the printing of examination notification
slip for candidates. “The board will announce the date for the 2019 UTME soon. “As it is now, no date has been fixed yet for both the examination and the printing of examination notification slip. “The examination slips are usually printed, two weeks to the main
examination, but that is only after when the examination date has been
fixed. “There is no way anybody can print examination notification slip when the examination date, itself, has not been fixed.” He, therefore, urged candidates and other stakeholders to remain  calm, reassuring them that the board would make announcement and proper  sensitisation about the date for the examination and printing of  examination notification slip. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.