Dr Cyril Omorogbe, the Delta Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC),  Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has announced that the  state has so far recorded 95 per cent in Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs)  collection. Omoregbe announced this in statement which he signed and made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Asaba. He said that Delta was currently ranked among the states that had recorded high number of PCV collection in the country. The REC however noted that it would be impossible to achieve 100 per  cent collection owing to relocation of registrants and natural  disasters, among other impediments. He said, “In PVC collection, Delta as a state, is way ahead of other  states in the country. At this point, we are actually knocking on about  95 per cent of collection. “There are some states that perhaps, cannot boast of 65 per cent. “Don’t expect 100 per cent PVC collection also. “There is no way you can expect 100 per cent collection, because people  who have some of these PVCs have probably let the state. Some of them  are dead,’’ he said. He said that INEC had extended the period of PVC collection by three  days – Feb 8 to Feb. 11., adding that the exercise would last between  9am and 6 pm daily. In another development, the Head of Voter Education and Publicity,  Department Mr Bukola Ojeme, said that the commission had trained all  categories of election duty staff ready for deployment. Ojeme said this in Asaba, during a town hall meeting with women groups  and gender-focused Civil Societies Organisations (CSOs) in the state. He said that election would be conducted in the 5,863 voting points  which made up the 3,624 polling units in the 270 wards in the state. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.