The independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)has began the
distribution of sensitive materials for the Presidential and National
Assembly elections to various polling centres in Cross River. Mrs Anthonia Agbenem, the INEC Electoral Officer in Boki Local
Government Area of the state, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on
Saturday that the materials were distributed today to the various wards
to avoid any hijack. Agbenem said that all the vehicles conveying the materials were been
attached with security personnel for safe delivery for accreditation and
voting to commence. “What you can see here is the distribution process of materials to
the 11 political wards of Boki for accreditation and voting to commence. “The distribution process is going on smoothly. Actually, we were
suppose to distribute the materials yesterday but due to some challenges
ranging from vehicles coming at night and others, we decided to do it
today. “We met with the party leaders and decided that we should distribute
it today for the safety of the materials and the personnel. We started
distribution as early as 5 a.m today. “We have all assurances that the materials will get to the various
wards safely because we have armed security men attached to each of the
vehicles,’’ she said. Mr Albert Obi, a stalwart of the People’s Democratic Party in the
area, expressed satisfaction with the distribution process, adding that
the presence of security men in the centre gave confidence to them. Also, Mrs Theresa Akan, a member of the All Progressives Congress
(APC), commended INEC for the smooth distribution process and
orderliness of party agents in the area. NAN reports that armed security men from the Army, police and the
Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps are on ground to ensure peace
and orderliness in the area. Also, corps members were seen at the distribution centre waiting for materials of their various polling units. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA