The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) on Thursday threatened to  sanction oil producing companies which failed to upload its oil  production data on the DPR platform. Mr Ahmad Shakur, the acting Director of the department, gave the
warning at a sensitization workshop organised by DPR on National
Production Monitoring System (NPSM) for oil and gas operators in Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that about 75 compliance officers from the oil and gas firms attended the workshop. Shakur, represented by Mr Akpomudjere Okiemute, Assistant Director,
Management Branch of Upstream Sector of DPR, said the purpose was to
ensure full compliance to production and export data. Shakur said that a collective platform would deepen stakeholders’
understanding of the operations and relevance of NPMS to the public. According to him, oil and gas account for about 90 per cent of
Nigeria’s revenue and it is, therefore, essential that the national
government, through the DPR, have firm grip on oil and gas production,
transfers to terminals and exports. `The NPMS is a web-based platform that provides rapid and efficient
electronic data collection database and reporting system which replaced
the paper-based reporting,” he said. Besides, Shakur said the NPMS facilitates production surveillance, production data analysis and forecasting. According to him, it also gives potential investors to Nigeria high
confidence and assurance to invest in the industry because it is
transparent. He said that it had increased Foreign Direct Investments (FDI) and its inherent micro and macro-economic benefits. Shakur said that it was expected that all oil producing companies
complied to enable the department effect a comprehensive real time
reporting of the nation’s daily production status to the government. He said that companies were also required to submit their well test,
lifting reports, daily associated gas and non-gas associated production
reports and terminal reports, among others. “We have observed over the years that some companies are yet to
comply fully with the data submission via the NPMS portal in
contravention of the provisions of the Petroleum (Drilling and
Production) regulations of 1969 as amended. “The agency has set up a compliance team with the task to monitor and
ensure full compliance with data submission via the platform. “Operating companies are invited to submit two compliance officers
dedicated to handle NPMS mater to ensure continuous upload of production
data into the platform as required,” he said. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA