The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) has announced a major management  change with the appointment new General Managers (GMs) and Assistant  General Managers (AGMs) to inject new ideas into the organisation and  boost service delivery. The General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communications, Mr Adams
Jatto, made this known in a statement issued in Lagos on Friday. According to him, this exercise is coming on the heels of an ealier
appointment and redeployment of port managers and other senior
officials. “With this development Hajia Aisha Ali Ibrahim now becomes the GM
Marine and Operations; Capt. Jerome Angyunwe – GM  Health, Safety and
Environment; Malam Isah Suwaid Ali – GM Superannuation; Mr Musa Yaro –
GM Procurement, and Mr Mohammed Kabiru Kolo- GM Audit. “Others include Mr Olumide Omotosho – GM Security; Mr Sylvanus Ezugwu
– GM Finance; Mrs Nana Yakubu – GM Public Private Partnership; Mrs
Christiana Akpa – GM Medicals, and Mr Innocent Gamboro – GM Corporate
and strategic Planing. “In the Assistant General Managers cadre Ayodele Durowaiye becomes
AGM Operations; Mrs Zainab Kwande – AGM Servicom; Mr Hassan Danjuma – 
AGM Corporate and Strategic Communications; Mr Talum  Amos – AGM 
Hydrographic; Mr Jamil Khalil – AGM Security; Engr. Suleiman Anas – AGM
Corporate and strategic Planning, and Mr Shehu Mohammed – AGM Public and
Private Partnership. “Others of AGM cadre are Chuma Ezeneinyinya – AGM Occupational
Health; Dr Chinwe Nwokolo – AGM Medical Services; Capt. Sylvester Owobu –
AGM Marine; Izegboya Ethel –  AGM Board;  Felix Onyile – AGM Human
Resources; Mr Sani Isu – AGM Land and Estate,” the statement read in
part. According to Jatto  other AGM appointees included; Tokunbo Akingbuwa –
AGM Budget; Olusola Dairo – AGM Performance Management; Akinlabi
Illesanmi – AGM Civil, and Mrs Lucy  Gukas – AGM Tariff and Billing. He said that the appointments were tandem with the succession plan
policy set up by the Managing Director of NPA, Ms Hadiza Bala-Usman-led
management, to fill leadership gaps that had arisen in the wake of the
retirement of some senior officials of the authority. The appointment of the new officials would further refresh the
composition of the organisation’s leadership structure and inject new
ideas that would move the NPA ahead in pursuit of her vision of becoming
the leading port authority Africa. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA