A cleric, Pastor Helen Oritsejafor, has called for national dialogue
to resolve challenges threatening the peace and unity of Nigeria, saying
like a marriage the country would find peace through dialogue. Oritsejafor, Matriarch of Word of Life Bible Church (WLBC) and Wife  of Former National President of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN),  Ayo Oritsejafor, made the call at a news conference on her book signing  tour, on Friday in Abuja. She observed that America and Europe uncovered solutions to their problems through national conferences and dialogues. According to her, Nigeria’s problems of today are the products of undiscussed grievances of the past. “Like in marriages, the greatest challenge we face, as a nation, today is poor communication. ”Like couples, Nigerians must never economise dialogue. Two or more
people coming together will definitely carry their varied perspectives
to life into the relationships. “A lot of things happening today, if not expressed through dialogue, it will pose serious problems tomorrow,” she warned. Oritsejafor explained that America and Europe went through periods of severe challenges to their nationhood. According to her, the time has come for the people of Nigeria to sit together and say among themselves ”something must be done”. “We need to sit down and talk as a people and find a way to bring
peace to our country and work towards a meaningful development. “I believe the Nigerian boat will not sink if we all work towards
meaningful development of this country and avoid the things that divide
us and dwell more on the things that unite us as a nation,” she said. She further likened Nigeria to a family setting, saying the real
problems confronting the nation were a reflection of the troubles in the
homes. “What we see as Nigeria’s fragile state is about the economy. It is
about meeting needs and being able to keep the homes in order
financially. ”The homes in this country are troubled and this has had ripple
effect on the society, the nation is a larger family,” the cleric said. The Matriarch, who said her book – Joyfully Together – discusses how
to build lasting relationships at various levels, pointing out that
communication, money, and sex were key to a successful marriage. “Relationships are not meant to be endured but to be enjoyed. When
you have it good at home, it will reflect in every aspect of your life. “We want to ensure that the new generation can make their marriages right by having relationships that are healthy and lasting. ”The narrative begins from the dating stage; what to look out for, who to settle down with, etc. ”For those who are already married, some take a lot of things for granted. “If we put in the same efforts we put in when we were getting married
into the sustenance of the marriage , we will not be having broken
homes today,” she said.(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA