The National Emergency Management
Agency (NEMA), has embarked on sensitisation and awareness campaign
against banditry, kidnapping, fire outbreaks and flooding in the
northern part of the country. Alhaji Sanusi Ado, the Coordinator,
NEMA Kano Territorial Office, made this disclosure at a three-day Staff
Management Retreat in Dutse on Friday. Ado said the exercise, with the  theme: “Reengineering the Agency for Effective and Proactive Disaster  Management”, was organised to develop further steps for disaster  management. He said that it was also to strengthen its collaborative relationship with stakeholders in disaster management. “NEMA has since embarked on the sensitisation and awareness campaign of major stakeholders in disaster management”. According to him, the development is
due to the rise of major threats of banditry, kidnapping, incessant
fire outbreaks and flooding among others. “These threats have resulted in the colossal loss of lives and destruction of property, most especially in this region. “Therefore, this retreat will be a
perfect place for all staff to reflect on our organisation and to spend
some time thinking about a bigger picture of our agency. “Also, the development is necessary
in order to get everyone excited around a united mission and thereby
building a bond among our staff and stakeholders. “As you are aware, disaster management needs a strong and effective collaboration as it is a business for everyone,” he said. He stressed the need to rise up to their
responsibilities for proactive measures in preventing, responding and
mitigating the impact of emergencies and disaster solutions. Ado charged the participants to use
the forum to brainstorm and exchange ideas and come out with a holistic
and affordable way to confront all disaster situations. The exercise, which began on June 19, has 25 participants drawn from Kano office. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA