The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) has  congratulated the newly appointed Group Managing Director of the  Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Malam Mele Kolo Kyari on  his new appointment. The corporation disclosed this in a statement signed by Mr Ndu
Ughamadu, the Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs of division in
Abuja on Tuesday. EITI is a global Transperancy body for the extractive industry . According to the statement, Kyari’s  position will help to bring
about greater transparency and accountability in NNPC’s management of
Nigerian oil and gas revenues. The transparency body, with headquarters in Oslo, Norway, in the
congratulatory letter dated 27th June to Kyari, affirmed its readiness
to work with the new NNPC GMD to build on his earlier engagement in the
EITI’s targeted effort on commodity trading transparency. This initiative, it said, had contributed to the global momentum in the extractive industries across the world. “EITI already extended an invitation to the newly appointed NNPC GMD,
who would assume office on July 8 to join its targeted effort on State
Owned Enterprise (SOE) transparency initiative. “This will provided a veritable avenue for sharing best practices as
it also goes a long way in contributing to shaping evolving global norms
in the extractive industries. “The Secretariat is ready to provide support for NNPC’s efforts to
achieve disclosure of information on its management of Nigeria’s oil and
gas revenues in accordance with the standard set by the global
transparency organisation”, it said. The Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI),
which is the local arm of the global body, was directly copied with the
congratulatory letter by the international transparency body. NEITI had earlier congratulated Malam Kyari on his appointment.(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA