 Tokyo 2020 organisers said on Friday they had underestimated Japanese  demand for tickets after 3.22 million briefs were sold during the first  domestic sales phase last month. The unexpected demand prompted organisers to re-evaluate their
Japan-based sales going forward and there will now be a second ticket
lottery in August for those who missed out the first time around. Organisers say hundreds of thousands of tickets will be available in the second lottery. The exact format of the second phase has yet to be decided but will
only be open to those who failed to obtain tickets the first time
around, when results were announced on June 20. The window will close by Aug. 22, when the application process for Paralympics tickets is scheduled to begin. “There was a massive amount of applications received in the first
wave and this absolutely exceeded our expectations,” Tokyo 2020
spokesman Masa Takaya said on Friday. “So in that respect, we are pleased to see such huge excitement being built up amongst people across Japan.” Organisers have also ditched plans to offer further unsold tickets on
a first-come, first-served basis later in the autumn, as had been
originally proposed. There is now likely to be a third lottery phase instead, only open once again to Japan-based residents. Those wishing to purchase tickets outside Japan must do so through country-specific Authorised Ticket Resellers. Between 70 to 80 per cent of all tickets have been reserved for
domestic sale with the remainder allocated to international customers
and sponsors. “As far as we know, the reaction from the public to this second
chance is being well received … and by those who participated in the
first wave,” added Takaya. “So, we are right on track but we want to continue making our best effort.” Organisers say that over 7.5 million people had registered for the Tokyo fan ID needed to make a ticket application. Although the total number of tickets available has yet to be
announced as many venue designs are still being worked on, organisers
said in their bid for the 2020 Games that 7.8 million tickets would be
made available. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.