The National Centre for Women Development (NCWD) Abuja says it is set to collaborate with National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) to collate data on the impact of women’s contributions to nation’s economy  for policy implementation. The Director General, NCWD, Mrs Mary Ekpere-Eta, made this known in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Abuja. Ekpere-Eta said that the centre has a research department, saddled
with the responsibility of documentation, where they would collate the
data and present it to government for necessary implementation. She added that “we keep data of women, petty traders, hawkers, artisans, all the vocational skill providers who contribute so much to the country, but it is not recorded. “We are a research institute too, so we have all those documents.
Even this year, we are going to collaborate with National Bureau of 
Statistics to know how many women are contributing to national growth
and how to encourage them. “We get these data, prepare them and give government for
implementation. It is from there the government makes policies to drive
the economy.” According to her, the centre provides accommodation, feeding and
stipends for students to enable them to have conducive environment to
learn new skills. She said “we don’t need any particular certificate to be an artisan
or to be trained. If you are a woman, it qualifies you to benefit.’’ The NCWD boss reiterated the commitment of the centre toward
improving the lives of women, adding that free start-up packs and take
off grant were disbursed to 786 female graduates to enable them to
practice and generate resources from the skills they acquired without
challenges. She appealed for the allocation of more funds to the centre to enable  it to train more women and girls in the society, which would translate  to eradicating poverty, create job opportunities and wider economic  growth and development. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.