 Farmers in Damaturu have appealed to federal and state governments  to buy off agricultural produce from farmers to ensure the sustenance of  standard price. The farmers, who spoke to News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday,
said the fall in prices of agricultural produce had discouraged many
people from farming in 2019 season. They also said that buying off the produce would enable proper
preservation of agriculture produce purchased, thereby safeguarding the
health of people. Malam Ibrahim Warsala, a farmer, advised government to buy the excess
produce directly from farmers to keep a standard price and ensure that
farmers remained afloat. “The other advantage is government would ensure regulation of
preservatives in most grains produced across the country, and
effectively check use of poisonous materials,” Warsala said. Malam Abba Bukar, a retired civil servant and farmer, said there were
multiple advantages in government buying the produce, which included
encouraging farming activities, ensuring food security and enhancing the
economy. “The situation now is that grain merchants buy most of the produce
and sometimes mix same with dangerous chemicals to preserve the grains. “The Buhari administration has encouraged Nigerians to go into
farming and many Nigerians heeded the call but, they may abandon it if
not encouraged with inputs and readily available markets,” Bukar said. Alhaji Musa Alkali, another farmer, advised government to resuscitate  grain silos across the country and purchase excess grains for storage  in all the states. “This translates to agricultural and food subsidy to farmers and
consumers respectively, as well as reducing health risks caused by
feeding on poisonous substances used as preservatives,” Alkali said. Saidu Ibrahim, another farmer, said many farmers in his area
abandoned or reduced sizes of their farmlands in 2019 due to low prices
of produce. “Many people who cultivated or bought beans, sorghum and millet
during the last harvest,  were lamenting the drop in prices, saying it
was unprofitable. “There are fears that if farmers produce more, supply will exceed
demand by far, as such many people abandoned farming this year,” Ibrahim
said. Modu Sheriff, a labourer,  said the patronage of their service was
very low this year compared to previous years due to decline in farming
activities in Damaturu. “If you go to the central roundabout,the Family Support health center
junction, Potiskum road roundabout and the Maiduguri road-about, you
will see hundreds of able-bodied youth waiting to be hired as labourers
 to work on farmlands,” Sheriff said.(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA