Lagos, July 21, 2019 (NAN) Hajia Sherifah
Yusuf-Ajibade, a member of the Council of Trustees, International
Muslim Union (IMWU), has urged Nigerian parents to continue to provide
guidance to children towards building a strong nation. Yusuf-Ajibade made the plea during the
annual lecture of the Professionals, an organisation of Al-Mu’minaat,
with the theme, “Parenting: My Child and I,” held at the National
Assembly Mosque in Lagos on Sunday. According to her, children become
responsible citizens when parents give them the right training and
continue to pray for and guide them. She said parenting was a process of
promoting and supporting the physical, mental and intellectual
development of a child from infancy to adulthood. “Each of you is a shephered and each of
you will be questioned regarding his flocks. If a righteous man marries a
righteous woman, together they will build a righteous home. “Parents should be aware of the conduct
of their children and always monitor their phones and internet usage
until they are married. “Prophet Muhammad said when a community
is not good, mothers in the community have neglected their
responsibilities,” Yusuf Ajibade said. She urged women not to see themselves as
equal with their husbands, adding that men were meant to care for the
family, while women were to take care of the welfare  of the children and other relatives. Also speaking, Dr Abdul-Fatai Olajobi,
the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Neo-Neurons Concept and Senior
Partner, Brainy Educare Service Surulere, advised parents to always
remember their children in prayer and also teach them to pray. According to  him, parents should not talk to their children whenever they are angry to avoid using abusive words on them. “We should always support our children
and appreciate them whenever they do something special, and we should
also tell them we love them at all times, which will encourage them to
be better behaved. “Parents must trust Allah, always pray
and be thankful to God at all times. Parents should not allow their
profession to over shadow their primary responsibilities,” Olajobi said. He also said parents should avoid
fighting in the presence of their children and be mindful of the way
they speak to them. (NAN). Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA