No fewer than 200 Internally  Displaced
Persons (IDPs) in Gujba Local Government Area of  Yobe, have received a
two-bedroom bungalow each, constructed under an existing partnership
with the state Agency for Community and Social Development (YSACSD). Some beneficiaries of the partnership made this known in separate
interviews with  News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Buni Yadi. They said that the initiative had greatly enhanced their  resettlement and recovery in their respective communities. Malam Yusuf Ahmed, an IDP who fled Buni Yadi to Damaturu, said his
house was razed while he was away and had no where to put his family
when he returned, but was supported by the agency to build a two-bedroom
bungalow. “YSACSD came up with this support that individuals should provide
five per cent contribution while it provides the balance of 95 per cent
to build a two-bedroom house to the benefiting IDPs. “This was done in a group of 10 people who provided five percent
either in cash or building materials or labour, and the agency provides
the 95 per cent balance to build the houses. “The Agency also allows the group to execute the projects either
through direct labour or pick contractors of their choice,” Yusuf said. Bukar Ali, another beneficiary, said the partnership and five per
cent contribution paid by beneficiaries made them to be more committed
and owned up the projects. “We executed our houses through direct labour and ensured that
adequate materials were used to ensure quality was not compromised. “The Agency also supervised the construction to ensure we lived up to
the terms of agreement before they released the resources which were
paid in installments as the work progressed, ” he said. Abdu Musa, another beneficiary, said “in view of our situation and
the opportunity given to us by the agency, we wasted no time in
constructing the houses. “Unlike government contracts, these were speedily executed for us to
have shelter over our heads, and we are now proud owners of houses
through this partnership with the agency.” Mr Maisaje Yusufari, YSACSD Projects Officer, said the agency
supported 30 IDPs in Dadingel, 30 in Bulturam, 40 in Buni Gari, 20 in
Ngaburawa, 50 in Buni Yadi, and 30 in Goniri communities. “The agency in
collaboration with some communities have jointly reconstructed health
centres, schools and boreholes destroyed by insurgency,” he said. According to the official, groups contribute five per cent for every
project and communities contribute 10 per cent while, the agency support
the projects with 95 per cent for group and 90 per cent for community
projects. “Under this arrangement, the agency has expended more than  N1.07
billion on 84 community projects and  group projects for IDPs, persons
with disability and vulnerable groups in the state from 2016 to date,”
he said. NAN reports that 209 blind men and women have been supported with funds to procure  walking sticks and talking watches. Mai Yaskuma, leader of visually impaired persons in Buni Yadi, said
the collapsible sticks guide them for easy movements while the talking
watches give them the idea as to the time of the day.(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA