UNESCO and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS)  Community Court of Justice on Wednesday signed a Memorandum of  Understanding (MoU) to enhance freedom of expression, press freedom and  safety of journalists. Ms.Elohor Ovadje, Media Officer of the court made this known in a statement in Abuja. According to her, the agreement was signed by the Director General of
UNESCO Ms. Audrey Azoulay and the President of ECOWAS Court of Justice
Mr Edward Asante, to foster the commitment and cooperation between the
two organisations. She noted that the agreement was also to raise capacities and
knowledge of judicial actors on the legal framework governing freedom of
expression and press freedom. She quoted Azoulay as saying that the Freedom of expression and its corollaries are at the core of UNESCO’s mandate. “Our partnership with the ECOWAS Court signifies a vital cooperation
that will allow journalists and individuals in Africa to exercise the
right to freedom of expression with greater security. “The agreement formalizes the cooperation existing since 2016 between
the two organisations and facilitates the development of the joint
activities targeting the judiciary and civil society in Africa, such as
seminars, training workshops and Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC) on
freedom of expression issues. Justice Asante of ECOWAS Court was quoted as saying that the
memorandum is a significant part of cooperation between both parties to
protect and reinforce freedom of expression and press freedom in Africa. “I look forward to my further work with UNESCO and the judges and
lawyers in Africa that will benefit from the cooperation between the two
organisations. “Over the past years, UNESCO has rolled out series of online courses
in Africa in both English and French, along with on-the-ground workshops
for judges, prosecutors, lawyers and civil society that help reinforce
international and regional standards of freedom of expression. “The courses have already reached around 1,800 judicial officers and
civil society representatives in Africa, and provided crucial training
to help defend free speech and end impunity for crimes against
journalists. “This agreement with ECOWAS Court follows a similar MoU signed in
August 2018 by UNESCO and the African Court on Human and Peoples’
Rights, which similarly aims at strengthening capacities of the
judiciary in Africa on freedom of expression issues. “The undertaking provides specialised training of judicial officials
and exchanges in areas of freedom of expression, access to public
information and safety of journalists.” He, however, said that the project in Africa was based on a similar
course launched in Latin America, where more than 10,000 judges and
legal professionals were trained since 2013.(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA