Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State says the Lekki-Ikoyi link  bridge is expected to become fully electronic by October, in order to  cut off the delays caused by queues of motorists seeking to pay the toll  fare. Sanwo-Olu, who made this known in an interview with newsmen after an
inspection tour of the Lekki-Epe Expressway, said the proposed system
would be carried out under a public-private initiative. “We are trying to change the entire software, and come October, this toll plaza is expected to go electronic. “This means that people will not be paying cash on this toll plaza
again.We are trying to reconfigure and come up with a solution. “It is going to take us additional three months. End of September
into the first week of October, we should be ready that Lekki/Ikoyi link
bridge goes electronic. “Once this is done, we can assure you that traffic and journey time would be reduced by well over 50 per cent,” he said. Sanwo-Olu also said that the Lekki toll gate and the Lekki-Ikoyi link bridge would be left open during peak periods tomorrow. He said the measure was part of efforts to find lasting solutions to
the perennial traffic gridlock on the Victoria Island-Lekki-Ajah
expressway. Sanwo-Olu explained that the opening of the toll gates would enable the contractor to further identify the cause of the traffic. “We have consulted with a few traffic experts and what we are going to do tomorrow (Thursday) is to leave the toll plaza open. “The Lekki Ikoyi link bridge and the Lekki toll gate is going to be open for over three hours from 6.30a.m to 9.30a.m tomorrow. “It will also be left open in the evening from 4.30 pm or 5pm to 8pm. “The objective is that we want to do a real simulation of traffic study,” Sanwo-Olu said. He said the drainage on the Abraham Adesanya end of the road which
had been causing flood in the area would also be rehabilitated. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Sanwo-Olu had earlier
met with some stakeholders in the Victoria Island-Lekki axis to proffer
solutions to the perennial traffic on the Victoria Island-Lekki-Ajah
roads. The meeting, which was convened by key members of the organised
private sector in the axis, was also attended by representatives of
major land owners. Mr Biodun Otunola, Managing Director, Planets Project Limited,
contractors handling circulation study of the area, identified bad
condition of the inner streets and link roads and poor drainage systems
as responsible for the congestion. Otunola suggested that some of the inner roads should be classified
as one-way, while the remaining roundabouts on the long stretch of the
road should be removed and traffic signal lights installed. Recall that Sanwo-Olu, on assumption of office, had declared an emergency on traffic management and the environment. NAN reports that the immediate past administration had done away with
some of the major roundabouts in the axis, a move which residents
agreed had reduced traffic gridlock on the road. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.