The Kebbi Government on Tuesday distributed 10,000 date palm
seedlings and 5,000 seedlings of oil palm to farmers across its 21 local
government areas. The Permanent Secretary, state Ministry of Environment, Alhaji Mahmud
Kalgo, made this known at the launch and distribution of date palm and
oil palm seedlings in Kalgo Local Government Area. He said the gesture was part of the state government’s commitment to
diversifying tree planting, especially Neem trees, Eucalyptus and date
palm, among others. “We will particularly like to thank Gov. Atiku Bagudu for graciously
approving the purchase and distribution of 10,000 date palm seedlings
and 5,000 seedlings of oil palm in  21 local government areas. ”This is a gesture of the state government on diversification from planting of Neem trees and eucalyptus to fruits trees. “Fruit trees will undoubtedly lead to the creation of job
opportunities as well as poverty reduction among our people in the near
future. The socio–economic advantages attached to the planting of fruit
trees are enormous,” he said. Kalgo said the ministry had sent its officials to Katsina state to acquire training and management of the fruit trees. “The ministry would be ready to assist in the planting and management
operation of these seedlings to ensure their sustainability in the
state,” he said. The permanent secretary enjoined the councils to complement the
effort of government in diversifying plants through fruit project in the
state. In his remarks, Gov. Atiku Bagudu, who was represented by his Deputy,
Alhaji Samaila Yombe, said the government had consistently produced
seedlings of Neem and Eucalyptus in large quantities intended for
various afforestation programmes. “But today, the government intends to diversify the forestry sector
of the state by encouraging the planting of date palm and oil palm
seedlings which we believe, will go a long way in providing the
necessary financial and socio-economic benefit to the people of the
state,” he said. The governor urged the beneficiaries to ensure that they planted, protected and maintained their seedlings successfully. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA