The Trade Union Congress has asked the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)  to publish names of companies benefiting from its foreign exchange  policy, to ensure openness and availability for the manufacturing  sector. TUC’s President, Mr Quadri Olaleye, made the request in Abuja on
Thursday at the opening of the 5th Triennial Delegates Conference of the
FCT Council. He said the demand became necessary following reports of availability of dollars in hands of selected few persons. ‘‘CBN need to let the public know who those companies are that are
applying for Forex, because we are aware that Forex is inadequate for
manufacturing companies. ‘‘So if CBN is now saying that they will reduce the amount of dollars
to be given to that sector of the economy, there should be assessment
and traceability, background check for those companies applying for
dollars. ‘‘If that list comes out, we are the ones in the sector, I know that a
lot of companies that have closed down, and turned themselves into
dollar agents, they are still sharing the little amount that is left for
the sector.’’ According to him, if this is done, the apex bank will remove the
fictitious companies from the list and make Forex available to
manufacturing companies. ‘‘So we need to close that gap, remove the fictitious companies from
the list, and by then, CBN may not need to reduce anything but to give
to the manufacturing companies because of the effect on workers.’’ He said that the organised labour would take necessary steps to
ensure that CBN publish the list, saying it was the right of Nigerian
workers to know how its foreign exchange was being utilised. He expressed concern about the source of data on milk importation,
saying the congress was not aware about high milk importation, calling
for public engagement and discussion before policy implementation. He hailed the proposed CBN’s policy to place Forex restrictions on
importation of milk, noting that this would encourage local production,
boost the economy and also reduce capital flight from the country. On the minimum wage, Quadri said the union has given the government
some days to assess the documents, saying the union was awaiting the
outcome of the committee meeting before taking the next line of action. ‘‘We are not afraid, we are always ready to engage the government, because salary is our right, it’s not a gift,’’ he said. Earlier, Mr Christian Ohaa, Permanent Secretary, Federal Capital
Territory Administration (FCTA), said the TUC has been a part of the
success story of the administration. He expressed the administration’s continuous support to promote the rights of all workers. ‘‘Usually, in their dogged pursuit of the rights of their members of
which I am one, there is inevitable clash with the management of the
organisation. ‘‘What I have learnt over the years is that when handling labour
matters, both sides usually have compelling reasons for holding their
own positions, the solution has always been compromise, maturity, level
headedness. ‘‘A harmonious labour-government relationship will always benefit  both parties and I am happy to say we have been able to achieve this in  the FCT and the system has been better for us.’’ (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.