Dr Bashir Jamoh, the President, Chartered Institute of Transport  Administration of Nigeria (CIOTA), says it would ensure the  accomplishment of intermodal transport in Nigeria to enhance the  effectiveness of the economy. Jamoh made the pledge during a briefing of the institute’s newly elected executives in Lagos on Monday. According to him, passage into law of the Chartered Institute of
Transport Administration Bill would revolutionalise the transport sector
and increase the industry’s contributions to the economy. “CIOTA will establish valuable partnership and strategic alliances
with all target stakeholders from the Federal Ministry of Transportation
to other related Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) in
aviation, roads, rails, maritime, pipeline. “It will also synergise with the labour end of the transport sector like the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW). “The six geo-political zones will be duly covered to lead specific
transportation-related initiatives from water in the South-South to rail
and inland in the North-West and roads in the East. “The North-Central will focus on pipelines/cable transport, and the
Lagos hub of the South-West will focus on aviation,” Jamoh said. He commended the Federal Government for its efforts on issues of intermodalism, especially on rail systems before now. He added that it had made it possible for containers to be transported easily by rail from Apapa Port to northern Nigeria. Jamoh said that presently inland container depots had been extended
to the eastern part of the country, adding that containers should not be
transported by road to avoid constant gridlock on the highways. “For over four years now, there have been a lot of revolutions in
terms of rail systems, adding that President Muhammadu Buhari had
directed that all port should be linked with rails.’’ The CIOTA chief said that he had been able to achieve the attainment
of charter status for CIOTA, thereby giving the institute a voice in the
scheme of things in the Nigerian transport sector. He commended Buhari and the National Assembly for the passage of the Institute of Transport Administration of Nigeria Act. Jamoh, who is also the Executive Director, Finance, Nigerian Maritime
Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), said that the institute was
established in 1986. He added that within six months of his assumption of office in February, the institution was fully registered into law. He said that the institute would support by providing and advancing
top notch study, training, certification and practice of transport
management and administration in Nigeria and other related matters. “Most of the members of the Institute are
professionals, while the bill has to do with research. As dictated by
the law, we will liaise with tertiary institutions because we have
solutions from the different research works we have done. “To achieve best practice, we will adopt research method of
short, medium and long term method to enable us provide solutions to any
problems emanating from the transport sector. “We will also carry out a survey plan on all the various transport
modes namely land, air, and sea; we will relate with various heads of
the ministry as the law provides. “CIOTA is the only registered institution by the Act of parliament as
a professional body, that is why we will ensure we do the necessary
things to enable the Federal Government succeed,’’ he said. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA