Kaduna State Government has announced new postings for Permanent Secretaries in the state. This was contained in a statement by Government Spokesman, Samuel
Aruwan, and made available to News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in
Kaduna. According to him, five permanent secretaries had retired and a process to fill the resulting vacancies has been initiated. “The June 2019 Executive Order creating 14 ministries became effective 1st July 2019. “As part of the process of implementing this order, Gov. Nasir
El-Rufai has approved new postings for permanent secretaries,” he said. Those affected include Abdullahi Sani who moved to SUBEB from the
Ministry of Local Government while the  permanent secretary there, Musa
Adamu, moved to SUBEB. “Stephen Joseph moves to  Ministry of Environment from the defunct
Ministry of Water Resources, Mohammed Mahmud Shuaibu goes to Ministry of
Health from the Ministry of Environment Others were, Adamu Mohammed Mansur to the Ministry of Human Services
and Social Development from the Cabinet Office, Aisha Kumbo Mohammed,
General Services, from the defunct Ministry of Commerce, Industry and
Tourism while Murtala Dabo moves to the Ministry of Finance from the
Ministry of Public Works and Infrastructure. “Umma Ahmed goes to the Quality Assurance Board from the former Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development,” he added. He said that the five permanent secretaries who retired were, “Nana
Kande Bage, Dr. Abdulkadir Kassim, Mahmud Zailani and Shehu Raubilu
Ibrahim. “Approval has been granted for the voluntary retirement of Jonah Adze
Ambisa and the disengagement from service of Lawrence Shemang. “A process to fill the vacant positions of permanent secretaries has been initiated. “Accordingly, the Head of Service has directed that the most senior
Directors in the affected MDAs are to oversee the office of permanent
secretaries.”(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA