The Digital Bridge Institute (DBI) says it is collaborating with the  Cisco Networking Academy to intensity awareness on cybercrimes. The Acting Administrator, DBI, Mrs Viola Usoro, said this on Tuesday
in Lagos, during the 2019 Cisco African Academy Cyber Security
Conference for English West and Central Africa. Usoro said that as more and more organisations adopted new ICT
technologies in their operations and processes, cybercrimes or cyber
attacks had become the greatest threats to every business. She said that hundreds of attacks hit computer systems everywhere around the world. According to her, it is estimated that 54 per cent of companies, the
world over, experience at least one cyber attack every year. ”According to a survey by Sophos Nigeria limited and Sidmach
Technologies, 60 per cent of businesses and organisations every year
suffer cyber attack in the form of malware, phishing, Ransomware, Crypto
jacking and so forth. “92.4 per cent of these are delivered via email. Although most of
these attacks are not covered by the media, they all lead to losses in
millions of naira. ‘`The need for Cyber Security Framework underscores the importance of cybersecurity. “Most businesses try to prevent cyber attacks by securing their
networks using various Antivirus Software, establishing more secure
networks, yet statistics show that a huge percentage of cyber breaches
result from human errors. “This re-emphasises the need for awareness creation and capacity building,” she said. The Acting Administrator said that the conference put special focus
on cyber security projects, creating a hub where significant
stakeholders create awareness and build capacity on cyber security. She said that DBI was established by the Nigerian Communications
Commission (NCC) for the purpose of ICT capacity building across all
economic sectors in Nigeria. Usoro said that pursuant to this mandate, the Institute had in the
past decade and a half, championed functional and innovative ICT
education covering cyber security and other emerging technologies. She said that in 2018, DBI along with other industry stakeholders
formulated the National Operational Standards in ICT trade areas. According to her, these standards, once approved by the National
Board for Technical Education (NBTE), will form part of the National
Skills Qualification Framework (NSQF) to help regulate trainers and
professionals in the ICT industry in Nigeria. “In 2015, DBI became one of the six centres of excellence in Africa
in the ITU ICT Academy Network and one of our focus areas is
cybersecurity, where DBI will offer training on Cybersecurity and Cyber
Threat Mitigation Strategies. “I am persuaded the Cisco Network Academy will chart a most effective
roadmap for awareness creation and capacity building in cyber security
for the coming years. “We anticipate that the programme will identify new strategies to deter or outrightly prevent cyber attacks in our country. “Afterall, it is in our collective interest for cyberspace to be safe, open and secure,” she said. The General Manager, Cisco Systems West Africa, Kunle Oloruntimehin,
said that the Academy planned to train one million students by 2025. Oloruntimehin said that of the one million, 125,000 students would be
trained on cybersecurity, of which most of them would be from Nigeria. “There are two important things in life, which are education and
digitisation, and these two things are delivered by Cisco Networking
Academy,” he said. Alfie Hamid, Regional Manager for Africa, Corporate Affairs, Cisco
said that there was the need for partnership to curb cybercrime, toward
socio-economic development. Hamid said that digital disruption was happening rapidly, on a massive scale. He said that unfortunately, digital disruption drove the hacker
economy, creating an ever-evolving, dynamic threat landscape. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.