 The former Speaker of the Adamawa state house of Assembly and former Acting Governor, Rt. Hon. Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP has been sworn in as the new executive governor of Adamawa state for the next four years. Hon. Umaru Fintiri was sworn in alongside his deputy Mr Crowther Seth in a colourful ceremony held at the Mahmud Ribado Square in Yola  Wednesday. The State Chief Judge Honourable Justice Ishaya Kida
Banu administered the oath of office on Honorable Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri
and Mr Crowther Seth. In his
maiden acceptance speech, after inspecting a parade by men of the
Nigeria Police, Governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri promised to run an all
inclusive government that will serve the people for the overall interest
and the development of Adamawa. Governor Umaru Fintiri also  pledged to translate all his campaign promises tagged eleven point  agenda into reality so as to turn around the fortunes of the state for  the better of the citizenry. He said under his watch security of  lives and property of the citizens will top the priority of his administration in addition giving the Shila boys two weeks to repent  from the act or government will take proactive measures against them. Governor Umaru Fintiri said his government will improve the working
condition of civil servants in the state and he will ensure prompt
payment of pension and gratuity in the state. The Governor  thanked all those who supported him during the last general election and  appealed for prayers, understanding, support and tolerance to his  administration by the citizenry. Earlier in his welcome address,
the State Chairman of PDP Barrister Tahir Shehu explained that Adamawa
is a PDP stronghold since nineteen ninety nine and the party will remain
resolute and focused in serving the people. Barrister Shehu  noted with concern the high expectations of the people on the new  administration and urged the citizens to be patient with Fintiri led  administration as there are a lot of daunting challenges on ground. Dignitaries that graced the event include Deputy Governor Mathins  Babale, former governors Barrister Bala James Ngillari, Mr Boni Haruna  and Ambassador Wilberforce Juta as well as Lamido Adamawa Dr Muhammadu  Barkindo Aliyu Mustafa. Others include traditional rulers, former and present members of the National and State Assemblies. Security Chiefs, Members of the diplomatic core, non governmental organisations and top Politicians among others. Highlight of the event was presentation of the handingover documents to  Governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri by Former Deputy Governor Martins Babale. (By  Muhammad B. Muhammad ) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.