The Nigerian Maritime Administration And Safety Agency (NIMASA) on  Friday donated relief materials to victims of 2018 flood disaster in  Kano State. Presenting the materials to the Kano State Government, the Director
General of the Agency, Dr Dakuku Peterside, said the donation was part
of their corporate social responsibilities. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the materials include
food items such as bags of rice and beans as well as grinding, sewing
and pumping machines. Others are detergents, mattresses, blankets, mosquito nets and other items. Represented by the Deputy Director Finance of NIMASA, Mrs Odusanya
Olamide, Peterside said the donation was coming late because certain due
process had to be followed before the disbursement of the fund. The DG explained that NIMASA was rendering assistance to victims of
disasters across 20 states, adding that the agency was looking into the
possibilities of increasing the number of the benefiting states. He urged the state government to distribute the relief materials to
the affected people judiciously so as to achieve the desired goal. He also reaffirmed the agency’s commitment in rendering assistance to victims of natural disasters across the country. In his remark, Alhaji Ali Bashir-Nukkel, Executive Secretary, Kano
State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), who received the donation on
behalf of the state government, commended the efforts of NIMASA for
identifying with the victims. He assured that the items donated would be distributed judiciously to
the affected people with the aim of alleviating their suffering. According to him, the relief materials would be distributed only to
those victims who were affected seriously by the disaster and need more
assistance. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA