President Muhammadu Buhari is said to have forwarded Godwin
Emefiele’s name to the National Assembly for reappointment as Central
Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor. According to the News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) President  Buhari  on Thursday forwarded the name in a letter, expected to be read on the floor  of the Senate. Godwin Emefiele who is the 11th CBN Governor began his five-year
tenure on June 3, 2014, which will come to an end in less than a month. Emefiele became the governor at a time when there was visible
pressure on the Naira as well as a decline in the country’s foreign
reserves. At his maiden news conference as governor, he harped on the vision of
building a people-focused central bank that would deliver effective
price and financial system stability as well as promote sustainable
economic development. Over the course of five years, Emefiele introduced policies which
many economic experts have criticised, while many others hailed the
policies. Some of the major policies undertaken by the apex bank in the last
five years include the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP) which aims at
increasing the country’s local food production and conserving the
foreign reserves. The CBN took the decision to also ban 41 items from accessing foreign
exchange through official routes to encourage local production of the
items and simultaneously conserve the nation’s depleting foreign
reserves. Since then, the CBN has raised the number of items affected on the
list to 43, with the inclusion of fertiliser and textile products. Some of the items not valid for foreign exchange at the Nigerian
window include rice, cement, margarine, palm produce, beef, vegetables,
poultry and eggs, private airplanes, wooden doors and Iron rods, among
others. The CBN also introduced the multiple foreign exchange system, which
led to the creation of the Inter-bank/Wholesale, Invisible, Small &
Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and the Investors/Exporters’ windows. Also, in 2018, the CBN signed a bilateral currency swap agreement
with the People’s Republic of China worth about 2.5 billion dollars. The Currency Swap Agreement is designed to aid trade transactions
between China and Nigeria and remove the need to first source for U.S.
Dollars before payments for transactions involving the two countries. The CBN through the Banker’ Committee and in collaboration with all
banks in Nigeria also inaugurated a centralised biometric identification
system for the banking industry tagged: “Bank Verification Number
(BVN)”. (NAN) 