The Federal Government says it will inject 600,000 gas cylinders to  support effort to boost Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), also known as  cooking gas, penetration in the country. Ms Brenda Ataga, Special adviser on Gas to the Minister of state for
Petroleum Resources, Dr Ibe Kachikwu, disclosed this at the
stakeholders’ forum on LPG penetration in Abuja on Tuesday. According to her, from our estimation, we have 386,000 micro
distribution centres across the country. We have issued a few licenses
but I don’t have the total number here. “We will inject 600,000 cylinders to filling plants and Skid owners
that have converted their skids to micro distribution centres,” she
said. She said that the Federal Government would come up with a policy that
would remove the ownership of LPG cylinders from consumers. Ataga added that the policy would require that the ownership of the
cylinders rests strictly with the dealers and distributors as part of
strategy to deepen the penetration of LPG. The minister’s aide said that cylinders would be distributed on credit, with a pre-payment period of 18 months. Commenting on the roadside sellers or illegal gas sellers, Ataga said
that government would commence awareness campaign to help sensitise
people to the right procedures. She said that after awareness the Department of Petroleum Resources
(DPR) would commence clamping down on illegal or road side sellers. “Actually, enforcement will start next week, we will start notifying
people from today; there will be jingles in the media, so that people
will understand what we are talking about. “The clamp down will be done area by area where convention of Skids
had be done and where illegal sellers have been warned,” she added. Ataga said that over a million illegal retailers are currently
existing in the country, adding that government has planned to remove
Value Added Tax (VAT) to achieve its target. Mr Umar Gwandu of DPR called on all stakeholders and Nigerians to
support government’s effort to ensure the success of LPG penetration in
the country. He promised that DPR would put strategy in place to help all stakeholders key in properly. Also, Commandant Patrick Ukpa of the Nigeria Security and Civil
Defence Corps, FCT command assured the agency of maximum support to help
government achieve LPG penetration in the country. “There is no business without regulations, sensitising people to the right thing is a good way to start. “As a law enforcement agency, we must help to stop all illegal
businesses; we all need to cooperate to ensure sanity in our country,”
he said. Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA