Prof. Ishaq Akintola, Director, Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has  urged Muslims to use the holy month of Ramadan to supplicate for the  freedom of Leah Sharibu and the remaining Chibok  girls still in the  hands of Boko Haram insurgents. Akintola in his Ramadan message on Monday said that the continued
stay of Sharibu and the Chibok girls in Boko Haram’s camp is a dark spot
on Nigeria’s white linen. “Whereas the Federal Government and Muslim Ummah desire freedom for
those innocent girls, the insurgents are keeping them in captivity in
order to use them as human shields, to boost their negotiation power. “The overall objective of Boko Haram is to ignite a religious war by
attacking places of worship. It was when that ploy failed that they
resorted to abducting Christian girls with the hope of provoking
Christendom. “This is why Nigeria’s religious leaders must exercise extra
patience. They must not play into the hands of the insurgents. They must
refrain from emotional outbursts. “Instead, they must sink their differences and come together in the
name of humanity to fight the evil in their midst. We reiterate that
terrorists have no religion. “Nigerian Muslims must invoke the incomparable spiritual might of
Ramadan to neutralise the supposedly invincible power of Boko Haram to
set Sharibu and the Chibok girls free,” he said. Akintola also called for prayers for peace, security, political stability and economic buoyancy for Nigeria. “Furthermore, we must use that special spiritual power of Ramadan to
crush all powers of darkness and all agents of evil who are behind the
incessant killings and kidnappings in Nigeria. “Prophet Muhammad (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) said,
‘When Ramadan comes, Shay-tan is put in chains’. It is high time
Nigerian Muslims utilise this Islamic truism to destroy killers. “We call on fasting Muslims to make freedom for Sharibu and the Chibok girls their prayer points during the Ramadan. “Pray that Nigeria is emancipated from ruthless killers and  kidnappers, for the exposure of rebellious subjects and enemies of  peace, for total security, for economic buoyancy and political  stability,” he said. NAN Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.