Organised labour has again cautioned
the Federal Government on the nation’s rising debt profile, “resulting
from government’s unsaturated appetite for borrowing and foreign
loans.’’ The President of the United Labour
Congress (ULC), Mr Joe Ajaero, gave the warning on Wednesday when he led
hundreds of workers to mark May Day at the National Stadium in
Surulere, Lagos. Ajaero warned on the implications of
taking foreign loans as this could leave the country in perpetual
struggle to repay the principal sums and the piling interests. He also deplored the increasing
unemployment rate in the country, describing the trend as worrisome and
needing urgent measures to reverse. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)
reports that the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) has put Nigeria’s
unemployment rate at 23.1 per cent, the highest in recent years. The NBS said that people between 18
and 35 years were mostly affected by the unemployment problem, while the
country’s debt profile, according to the Debt Management Office stands
at N24.3 trillion. “The high unemployment rate is unacceptable. Our economic managers seem ill-equipped to handle the situation. “They beat their chests about exiting recession, growing foreign reserve and stabilising exchange rate. “The economy currently lacks
capacity to create new jobs. As such, youth unemployment remains high– a
time bomb waiting to explode,’’ the ULC chief said. He also told government to halt
wanton killings across the country, noting that the situation has
reached an alarming proportion. “President Muhammadu Buhari must
show that the lives of Nigerians matter by taking drastic actions to
call officers responsible for security but failed to account,’’ Ajaero
stated. He also harped on the need for
government at all levels as well as private sector employers to
implement the N30, 000 minimum wage. He, however, commended Buhari and
the National Assembly for refusing to yield to forces that attempted to
truncate the new wage benchmark. The labour leader called on
government to review the privatisation of the electricity sector, saying
that the sector was riddled with corruption. He told Buhari to sign the law to
complete the Ajaokuta Steel Mill as well as the Academic Research
Institute Bill and to review the petroleum subsidy regime for
transparency and accountability. (NAN) Innocent Korie is an ICT and Project Management Professional with very good flair in  business development,  and Online media management.