The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) said on Thursday that its
330,132kV transmission substation at Molai in Maiduguri, Borno, was
attacked by insurgents on May 7, at about 5:30p.m. Mrs Ndidi Mbah, TCN’s General Manager, Public Affairs, who disclosed  this in a statement in Abuja, said two Post Isolators Porcelain units in  the substation were affected. She, however, said the cracks on the affected transmission equipment
was, however, not too deep as to affect supply to the substation. According to Mbah, the insurgents made away with one Hilux van, while
two Hilux vans and one vehicle belonging to a staff of TCN were
destroyed by the insurgents. Mbah listed other items destroyed to include a truck, computer, monitor and printer in the  transmission control room. She said the windows of the control room and staff house were also shattered by gun shots. “The operator on duty did exceptionally well by opening the
transmission lines from the substation and shutting down the station
before quickly leaving the substation just before the insurgents reached
the substation. “After the incident, TCN engineers did a thorough check of the substation equipment before restoration of supply on May 8. “TCN commends efforts of security operatives, who have continued to
make it possible for its operators to run the substation, and appealed
for deployment additional security personnel to the area,’’ she said. Mbah said the deployment of more security personnel would further
boost the morale of workers, who had being unrelenting in ensuring that
electricity supply is sustained in Maiduguri and its environs despite
the risks. She said the 330,132,33kV Molai substation was completed and
energised on October 25, 2018 but also formally inaugurated on February
13. She said the substation comprised of 150MVA and 60MVA power
transformers, which feed Yola Disco customers in Maiduguri and environs. Mbah reiterated the commitment of TCN  to the implementation of  the
Transmission Rehabilitation and Expansion Programme, (TREP), noting that
some level of investment and stability had been achieved. “To completely stabilise and modernise the grid, Nigeria must
complete the ongoing investment in grid expansion and rehabilitation,
establish adequate spinning reserve and install well-functioning
Supervisory Control Data Acquisition (SCADA). “The Molai substation had experienced attacks by insurgents in the
past but this has not deterred TCN from ensuring that power is supplied
to Maiduguri,’’ Mbah said. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA