The Etsu Nupe, Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar, has urged Muslims to
intensify prayers during the Holy  Month of Ramadan for the return of
 permanent peace in Nigeria. According to him, prayer remains the most effective weapon against any form of challenges. He made the call during the Ramadan Tafsir holding at his Wadata Palace in Bida, Niger State on Sunday. Abubakar, who is the  Chairman of Niger State Traditional Council,
said security challenges such as insurgency, banditry and kidnapping
would be overcome through ceaseless and fervent prayers by the Muslim
faithful in the holy month of Ramadan. The monarch explained that with prayers the curent security
socio-economic and other challenges facing the country can be solved
through divine intervention . He explained that the ongoing Ramadan fast was the most auspicious
period to offer prayers to Almighty God to provide sustainable solutions
to problems plaguing the country. The royal father urged Muslims in his domain and the country at large
to use the holy month to pray fervently for peaceful coexistence,
stability, progress of Bida Emirate, Niger state and nation at large. “Prayers during this holy month will help our leaders and the
security agents to overcome all these devilish acts that is bedeviling
our country” he said. He warned Islamic preachers against inciting comments that could provoke public disturbance. “Religious preachings during this period should be targeted at
maintaining harmonious relationship among the people and nothing should
be done to divide the people”, the Etsu Nupe said. Abubakar stressed that harmonious relationship among people should
always be promoted to enhance peace, unity and progress of every
community. The traditional ruler urged the clerics  to strive to be shining examples in their utterances and deeds at all times. He appealed to wealthy Nigerians to always assist the less privileged
in the society by providing them with food items and cash to tease
their hardships. “People should use their God-given wealth to assist the poor and the
widows; this will go a long way to alleviate  their sufferings during
this Holy Month of Ramadan” Similarly, the Chief Imam of Bida, Sheikh Adamu Liman-Yakatun urged 
Muslims  to fear Allah and always remember the day of reckoning. He appealed to wealthy individuals to assist in feeding the less privileged, to cushion the effect of fasting on them. “Muslims should spend their God given wealth in the cause of moving
the religion forward, rather than saving them in bank accounts that will
not add any value spiritually,” he said.(NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA