Gov. Willie Obiano of Anambra has commended President Muhammadu
Buhari over the ongoing work at the second Niger Bridge, Onitsha-Awka
road project and Federal Government’s social intervention programmes in
the state. Obiano gave the  commendation when he fielded questions from State
House correspondents after a private meeting with President Muhammadu
Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja on Monday. The governor said he also appealed for more social interventions and
projects in the state as well as ministerial and other appointments. “Well, I called the president when he won the election and this is
the first time I am seeing him physically since after that election. “So, I came to congratulate him on his well deserved victory; that is
one, then, I gave him update on the Federal Government projects that
are going on in Anambra. “For example, Second Niger Bridge which is going according to plan;
work is going on there very well; the minister of Power, Works and
Housing and myself were at the sites recently and I came to brief him
fully–that work is going as planned. “Secondly, the road they are doing between Onitsha and Awka  –17.5km-
is going on very well, they have stone-pitched about eight kilometers
of that road already and they have asphalted four kilometers already;
again, I commended him for that initiative. “Initially, people thought it was election fluke but you can see long
after the elections those works are still going on very well.’’ The governor said he told the president that the Home Grown School
Feeding Programme, N-Power, TraderMoni and other social  intervention
programmes were going according to plan. Obiano said that aside requests, he did promise Buhari that he and
the people of Anambra would continue to support him to make sure that he
had a successful second term in office. “We did ask for appointment too in various areas; the president is a
good man and he will look at that request dispassionately and handle
accordingly. “I am a hands-on governor; I don’t treat federal government projects
as if they are in Abuja, no; I go there and supervise the projects as if
it is my own project initiated by Anambra state government. “That is why I gave him update on what I have just told you; because I know he is doing a great work. “ I told my people to know where we are headed that this man keeps
his words just like me and he is doing a great work and he is honest,
straight forward, his yes is yes, his no is no. So why can’t I like such
a fellow?’’ He noted that there were many federal roads in Anambra requiring attention. He added that after the completion of work on Onitsha-Enugu
Expressway, he had requested the President to also focus on seven other
federal in dilapidated state for over twenty years. He said that some of the roads were constructed during Buhari’s
tenure in Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF) and by providence he was the one
fixing them many years after. “So, we did ask for favour in that area; we did ask for increase in
the social programmes that the Federal Government is handling; more
support for school feeding. Now we are feeding 126,000 pupils every day. “ So far, about N2.3 billion has been spent by the Federal Government
in school feeding in Anambra State – a very good programme. “Also, on the N-Power programme, we have over 8000 youths already employed. “Youths that ordinarily would have been doing some other things are
gainfully employed by the Federal government; and of course, I did ask
for support in appointments– ministerial, ambassadorial, parastatals and
so on so that all of us can move to the Next Level,’’ he said(NAN). 