The Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has urged developers to
ensure that quality assessment test was carried out on building
materials before using them for construction work to eliminate building
collapse. Mr Osita Aboloma, SON Director General, gave the warning at Real
Estate Development Association of Nigeria (REDAN), 2019 Building Expo in
Abuja. He said that quality of products needed to be reconfirmed due to reproduction before they were passed for use. Aboloma, represented by Mr Paul Oke, a director in SON, said there are set standards before products could be used. According to him, due to porous nature of Nigeria’s borders, smugglers tend to bring in adulterated materials at the night. “If you have not carried out a test on any product and you are using
it for construction work you are bound to kill people and at the end of
the day the question is who is in charge? “For every material, especially iron rod there is a code on it from
manufacturer, if the material fails any test requirement it will be
seized and the only way to trace the manufacturer is through that code. “If you don’t see any of these particular proof it means the product
is a suspect and don’t buy or use it. If you pass the message to SON, we
will seize the product and stop it from circulation. The DG said that the integrity of the development of real estate
depended on some key factors, which included the use of professionals to
conduct preliminary studies and specifications for the proposed
building. In addition, he said it also depended on the use of building
materials of right quality and the engagement of professionals to carry
out the construction of the building using standard methodologies. “For the purpose of illustration, a building resulting from the use
of high quality building materials but constructed by quacks may not be
fit for purpose. “Likewise a building resulting from the use of sub-standard building
materials even if constructed by highly qualified professionals may also
not be fit for purpose. The building will crumble. “Building collapse is rampant and can be reduced completely in the country if all these were put in check. In his presentation entitled: “Standardisation and Regulation of
Building Materials as the Fulcrum of Integrity Based Real Estate
Development in Nigeria” he said the integrity of development of real
estate revolved around use of standardised materials and professionals. He said that over the years, SON had done a lot to standardise
building materials in Nigeria as well as many other products through the
development of Nigerian Industrial Standards (NIS), which specified the
minimum acceptable requirements for each product. According to the DG, SON has put in place Conformity Assessment
Programmes to ensure both locally manufactured products and imported
ones meet the requirements of relevant standards. He further said that it also carried out market survey to find out
status of products in the market and conduct enforcement exercises to
remove substandard products in circulation. “SON has overseen the development of several NIS in different sectors
of the economy of Nigeria over the years and the construction and
building industry is not left out. “Some of the existing NIS for building materials includes: standard
for cement, sand-crete blocks, steel reinforcement bars, corrugated
roofing sheets and burnt clay building units among others. The conformity of building materials in Nigeria market to relevant
standards is achieved through a twin conformity assessment programmes
namely: the Mandatory Conformity Assessment Programme (MANCAP) and SON
Conformity Assessment Programme (SONCAP). MANCAP was put in place to ensure that all locally manufactured
products including building materials, meet the requirements of relevant
NIS. SONCAP on the other hand was put in place to ensure that all imported
products into Nigeria meets the requirements of the relevant NIS or
approved equivalents. He, however, said that enforcement exercises were carried out based
on intelligence to remove substandard products that could get to the
market. Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA