The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has
donated food items to the Kaduna State Government for onward
distribution to flood victims in the state. The Director-General of the agency, Dr Dakuku Peterside, who was
represented by the Executive Director, Finance and Administration,
Bashir Jamo presented the items to Gov Nasiru El-Rufai on Wednesday in
Kaduna. While presenting the items, Peterside said the gesture was in line with the organisation’s corporate social responsibility. He noted that the visit was the first time to deliver relief materials to flood victims in the state “We cannot only wait to administer our mandate by taking care of our
own alone but all stakeholders; stakeholders who include victims of
flood all over the country. “The agency looked at the states affected by the disaster and gave to the people affected within the 20 states. “The states include Kano, Zamfara, Lagos, Sokoto, Niger and Calabar,
among the 20 states and we also accommodate Kaduna state as approved by
the director’’. He reiterated the organisation’s commitment to support flood victims
in the country and also commiserated with the affected persons. Receiving the delegates, Gov. El-Rufai thanked the organisation for
the support toward alleviating the impact and negative outcomes from the
flooding. According to him, the state government has done a lot to prevent such occurrences in various parts of the state. He said the support came at an appropriate time adding that the state
has over 1,238 IDPs in camps at Kajuru alone and over 4,000 in Birnin
Gwari. He explained that the gesture will not be forgotten in a hurry  and
called  on other government agencies to follow the footsteps of NIMASA
by coming to support the state government in aiding  people of
vulnerable groups NAN reports, some of the relief materials included vegetable oil ,palm oil as well as bags of rice and guinea corn. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA