A Muslim scholar, Prof. Abdulrazzaq Alaro, has called on all Muslims to  be just in their daily affairs, saying that almighty Allah wants all  human beings to live a just life. The scholar made the call on Thursday while delivering an annual Ramadan  sermon at Umar Ibn Al-Khattab Mosque, Kuntu area, Ilorin. He noted that people with the fear of the almighty Allah would be just  in his or her everyday activities, both in his private life and while in  the office. “Muslims should always put almighty Allah first in their everyday life.  Whenever you have a plan or promise to do something, always say ‘In sha  Allahu’ (If almighty Allah wishes). ‘’As this is a sign of true believer and it is only almighty Allah that  guarantees the possibilities of everything in this world. “And this pronouncement will enable such believers to be able to fullfil  their promise and achieve their plans easily and successfully,” he  said. The scholar urged true believers not to overdo things and at the same  time, under do things, rather, they should be moderate in everything  they do. “All the prophets of almighty Allah from prophet Adam, to other prophets  and the last prophet, Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) are to be  followed according to what they preach. “These prophets lived a good life, in terms of behavior, devotion to  Allah, but they are not perfect with their dealings, and that is because  they are human like any other human being. “It is only almighty Allah that is perfect and just, and that is why we  should follow His words/messages sent through the prophets. “Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) preach against excesses, both in  behavior, dressing, and everything we do, and the only way to know is  through the ways of the prophet’s life.’’ On growing violent extremism in parts of the country, Alaro said that  the extremist could be curtailed in two different ways in order for them  not to become violent. These include: counter narrative and alternative  narrative. “The alternative narrative should be used to advise extremists not to  become violent, and this is the method that the prophet (Peace be upon  him) used to curb extremist during his life time. “The counter narrative is the challenges posed by the extremist, they  will be saying, they are like this, while we will be forced to tell  them, they should not be like that. ‘’But this method has been discovered not to be so effective in curbing the menace. “The better approach is to have a plan from the beginning, let us give  the true picture of Islam, as an alternative narrative, this is who we  are, and this is how we practice our religion. “We should have that in our memory, so, whenever an extremist brings an  idea that is un-Islamic, they will be able to weigh it by themselves  with what they know that is the truth about Islam.’’ (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA