The Minister of Transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, said the federal
government has approved the contruction for Warri seaport at the cost of
about 3.9 billion dollars and also awarded contract for Abuja-Warri
rail line. Amaechi told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Abuja
that government also approved the linking of Abuja to Itakpe,
Itakpe-Warri, then from Warri rail to the seaport. “The President awarded the contract for Abuja to Warri, Abuja to  Itakpe, then to Warri. From Warri rail to the seaport. We are building a  new seaport in Warri, the cabinet approved it last week, that is about  3.9 billion dollars,” he said. He however said that about 45 billion dollars was needed to complete rail development in the country. He said that once Lagos-Kano, Port Harcourt-Maduguri, Lagos-Calabar
and Abuja-Warri rail lines were constructed, the rail would have covered
the country. According to him, government has not spent over 3 billion dollars so far on all the ongoing projects. “The Lagos-Ibadan will cost about 1.6 billion dollars, that doesn’t
include the extra cost of things we didn’t prepare for or see in the
evaluation; Abuja-Kaduna was constructed with about a billion dollars. “We also paid 500 million dollars to buy locomotives and rolling
stocks for Lagos-Ibadan, I can’t remember how much we spent buying
rolling stocks for Kaduna-Abuja, that is what we have spent so far. “So all the noise that you hear people saying we have spent 8 point
something billion dollars is not true. I don’t think we have spent up to
three billion dollars so far. Railway is capital intensive, a trillion
naira is about 2.7 billion dollars. “And that is for 200km of railway, if you plan to do Lagos-Ibadan and
you are looking at 8.7billion dollars that is between 3 and 4 trillion
Naira. That is why I said we will need about 35 to 45 billion dollars. “To be able to do Lagos-Kano, Port harcourt-Maduguri, Lagos-Calabar
and Abuja-Warri, once we do this four tracks, we have covered the
country and we have solved the problems of transportation to a great
extend.” (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA