The Federal Government has approved the appointment of Dr Bayero
Salih-Farah as Acting Director-General/Chief Executive (D-G/CEO) of the
Nigerian Institute of Transport Technology (NITT) Zaria. This is contained in a statement issued by the Director, Public
Affairs, NITT, Mr Paul Mshelizah on Thursday in Zaria, Kaduna State. Mshelizah said this followed the retirement of Dr Abimbola Odumosu,
who had been overseeing the affairs of the Institute since March 2018. He said the letter of appointment was conveyed to the Registrar of
the institute, Alh. Sule Bello, by the Permanent Secretary, Federal
Ministry of Transportation, Alhaji Sabiu Zakari, on behalf of the
Minister of Transportation, Chief Rotimi Amaechi. The director said the letter read in part: “I write to convey
approval of the Honourable Minister for Dr Bayero S. Farah, being the
most senior officer in the Institute, to oversee its affairs with effect
from Monday, 6th May, 2019, being the date the current Ag. Director
General/Chief Executive would retire from service”. He said during a handing over ceremony well attended by NITT
Management Staff, the outgoing DG/CE, Dr Abimbola Odumosu, thanked God
for His blessings, and also the entire NITT staff for their support and
cooperation during his tenure. Presenting the handover notes to Salih-Farah, the former DG/CE congratulated his successor and wished him well. He also appealed to the management and staff of the institute to
accord maximum support and cooperation to the acting D-G in order to
move the institute to greater heights. In his inaugural address, Salih-Farah, observed that the occasion was auspicious and remarkable in the history of NITT. He stated that his appointment was a call to service; adding that he
would do everything humanly possible to discharge his duties diligently
and conscientiously. Salih-Farah appreciated Odumosu for his achievements during his
tenure, noting that his administration would maintain the spirit of
camaraderie and brotherhood that characterised the modus operandi of the
institute. He appealed to his predecessor to graciously grant the Institute the opportunity to tap from his wisdom whenever the need arose. Until his new appointment, Salih-Farah was the Director, Training in
the Nigerian Institute of Transport Technology (NITT), Zaria. An accomplished scholar and administrator per excellence, Salih-Farah
joined the services of the Institute in 1994 as Senior Staff
Development Officer and through hard work, rose to the position of
Director, Training Department in 2013. He was at several times Special Assistant to former DG/CEs of the Institute. Salih-Farah, who hails from Kachia Local Government Area of Kaduna
State, was born in the serene and peaceful city of Kagoro, Kaura Local
Government Area of Kaduna State in March 1964. He is of Fulani heritage and began his quest for education at LEA Primary School, Kpak, Kagoro between 1971 – 1976. From there he attended Katsina Teachers College, before proceeding to Usman Danfodio University, Sokoto in 1982. Armed with a B.Sc in Geography in 1987, Salih-Farah not done with
schooling then proceeded to the legendary Ahmadu Bello University,
Zaria, from where he graduated in 1994 with Postgraduate Diploma in
Public Administration (PGDPA). He quickly followed up with a Postgraduate Diploma in Transportation (PGDTL) from NITT the following year. Salih-Farah then proceeded to obtain his Masters in Business Administration (MBA) Degree from ABU in 1999. He subsequently capped his academic pursuit with a PhD in Management and
Business Administration from internationally renowned University of
Huddersfield, U.K. between 2011 and 2017. Before joining NITT, the new DG has worked in different parts of the
country as a Class Teacher, DFRRI Project Supervisor and a Census
Cartographic Officer. (NAN) 