Gov. Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi has commended his state executive council  members for their efforts in moving the state forward during his first  tenure. Bagudu gave the commendation on Wednesday during a valedictory State Executive Council meeting in Birnin Kebbi. “I appreciate the contribution, leadership and efforts you have exerted within the four years of our stewardship. “We notice that some of you have left their comfort zones and joined
the cabinet in order to offer their contribution towards our efforts in
moving the state forward,” he said. He also commended the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji
Babale Umar, Chief of Staff, Alhaji Suleiman Argungu and his Special
Advisers for their efforts in ensuring the development of the state. “We have worked together and learnt from one another; each individual
member deserves commendation for his contribution to my four years
stewardship and tenure,” he said. Bagudu said the entire people of the state deserved to be thanked for contributing one way or the other to the administration. The governor said he had strengthened unity among the people and facilitated industrial development in the state. “This has been manifested by the establishment of WACOT Rice Mill in
Argungu, Kamba Rice Mill and the proposed Dangote Rice Mill in Saminaka,
Dugu-Raha, in Shanga Local Government Area of the state,” he said. In an interview after the meeting, the state Commissioner for
Information and Culture, Alhaji Gado Marafa, said the governor only had
his last state executive council meeting but did not dissolve the
cabinet. “We still have until May 29 to hear from the government,  but now you
heard it yourself that he did not mention dissolution of the cabinet,”
Marafa said. (NAN) Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA