Niger government has closed down over 2,000 privates schools in  Suleja Local Government Area and other parts of the state for operating  below government approved standard. Alhaji Abubakar Aliyu, Permanent Secretary of Niger Ministry of
Education, disclosed this when he received the state Chapter of the
National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS) in Minna
on Monday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the members of the
association were in the state Government House to mark the 2019 NAPPS
Day celebration. Aliyu disclosed that the schools were closed down for operating below
standard in terms of infrastructure, offices, toilets, water and human
resources. “We have a monitoring team from the private school management board
that monitors schools both in the state and local government areas to
ensure that they operate within the approved standard. “This is part of government efforts in ensuring we provide qualitative education in the state,” he said. Aliyu gave assurance that government would address the issue of multiple taxation bothering operators of private schools. “I will relate your complains to the governor so that we can come up
with policy that will harmonise payment of taxes by private schools.” Earlier, Dr Sally Bolujoko, National President of NAPPS, said that
the celebration would provide an opportunity for the association to
examine relevant issues in the education sector and proffer solutions. Bolujoko, who was represented by Mr Femi Alalade, the state Chairman
of the Association, called on the state government to address issue of
multiple taxations on private schools by the state Board of Internal
Revenue. He disclosed that each private school had been paying 25 different  taxes to the board and called on government to harmonise tax payment. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.