The Executive Secretary of National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) Tony
Ojukwu Esq has charged the security agencies to raise the bar in addressing the
protection challenges of the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), Returnees and
other vulnerable groups in the North East. Ojukwu gave this charge in Abuja while reacting to the outcome of the meeting/Interface between the NHRC, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugee (UNHCR), Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs) and other relevant humanitarian actors and Stakeholders with protection mandate in Adamawa, Borno and Yobe states. Ojukwu said it was regrettable that the nation was confronted
with the challenge of insurgency but we must all play our unique roles to
provide adequate support for the vulnerable population in the society
so that they can also live a meaningful life. He said “our interaction with the population of concern and the
report we get from the fields show that majority of them suffer serious health
challenges some of which claim their lives”. While making reference to the
serious health challenges confronting IDPs
in Kukareta, Yobe State which has continued
to  claim the lives of pregnant women and children, Ojukwu said some
locations in the state do not yet have the presence of
security personnel or law Courts and this has aggravated crime and
criminality especially cases of sexual and gender based violence (SGBV) in
those locations. The men take advantage of the vulnerability of the women and
children and abuse them and yet, these cases cannot be reported because the
victims and their families cannot afford transport fare to convey them and
the perpetrators to very far locations where there may be courts or
security presence to report the matter. Some of them who take the pain to
report such cases are forced to withdraw them due to threat, cultural beliefs
or abject poverty. Ojukwu further stated that the Commission has recorded so many
of such cases from monitors in the field and we have also interfaced with
some of them and really found the situation very pathetic. We
are trying to get the commitment of the state governments to come to the aid of
these Vulnerable people, the Adamawa state governor
Ahmadu Fintiri has pledged his commitment but we are yet to
meet and get the commitment of Borno and Yobe State governments, he said. Ojukwu used this medium to commend the some MDAs, INGOs and NGOs
especially FIDA and NBA for assisting in the protection of the rights of the
vulnerable populations in these communities especially with respect to access
to justice in cases of sexual and gender based violence and other protection
issues thrown up by the insurgency and displacements in the North East
Nigeria. Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA