The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) in Delta on Thursday announced the  suspension of the strike embarked on over the failure of the federal  government to fully implement the new N30,000 minimum wage. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the NLC in the state
had on Tuesday embarked on strike to protest what it considered a failed
negotiation by the Joint Negotiation Council (JNC) on the new minimum
wage. Addressing newsmen on the sideline of the 5th Quadrennial State
Delegates Conference of State Chapter of the Medical and Health Workers
Union on Thursday in Asaba, Mr Goodluck Ofoburuku, the NLC Chairman,
announced the suspension of the strike. He said that the strike was suspended in Delta State following
intervention and directives from the national body for it to be allowed
to conclude the negotiation on the consequential adjustment on the new
minimum wage. “The initial directives that we received was that, if negotiation was
not concluded by Tuesday, we should commence strike by Wednesday, which
we complied with. “That is why, yesterday our people moved out to ensure that there was
a compliance but based on the advice of the national body, we have
advised our members to return to work and gradually they are going back
to work. “We have been told that significant progress has been made by the Joint Negotiation Council (JNC),” the chairman said. Ofoburuku , however, said that the NLC in the state would await
further directive from the national body should the negotiations fail. “We have soft pedaled but waiting for directive from the national  should the negotiations fail. “The truth of the matter is that the state government has committed itself to pay the minimum wage once the template is ready. “However, if it is unsuccessful, the national headquarters will tell
us what to do; I have no regret for taking an action that I am directed
to take. “I was elected to fight for the interest of my people and if it means
that going on strike is what will make the union get what it is asking
for, I will not regret it,” Ofoburuku said. The NLC chairman, who is the outgoing State Chairman, Medical and
Health Workers Union of Nigeria, said that his administration achieved
some goals, including salary reviews, encouraged the building of
capacity of workers and in house training for members. “But lately, those of our members who had in house training are  finding it difficult to be converted after their education, it is a  challenge that I want the incoming executive to take up that issue,” he  said. (NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.