Nestlé Nigeria has celebrated the 41 pioneer graduates of Nestlé  Sales Academy, a programme jointly run by the Lagos Business School and  Nestlé Nigeria Plc. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the graduates, Nestle’s
employees, graduated from the Academy, earning professional
certifications and diplomas on Oct. 25. According to the company, Nestlé Sales Academy is an accelerated
development programme combining classroom trainings, field visits,
assignments, exchange programmes and mentorship to ensure graduates
develop the required skills and competencies in sales. It aims at improving the professional competence and leadership capability of the company’s sales team. This objective is in line with the company’s commitment to create an
environment that allows employees to learn, grow and thrive in each
country where it operates. The Managing Director/CEO of Nestlé Nigeria Plc, Mauricio Alarcon,
said at the event, “Our people are key to the success of this company
and we will continue to invest in them. “I urge the new graduates to continue to excel in their different roles and to be agents of change in their respective teams.’’ Also, while commending the graduates, Chandana Fernando, Commercial
Manager, Nestlé Nigeria, said, “The company believes in you, hence the
investment in your development. This is an investment for today and for
tomorrow.’’ He also restated that the purpose of the academy was to develop the
skill sets and the mindset to gain competitive advantage for Nestlé
through sales professionalism. Mr Charles Ivenso, Director of Finance and Administration, Lagos
Business School, commended Nestlé for the visionary goal and commitment
toward making huge investments in employees. One of the trainees, Gbenga Adeyemo, reflecting on his experience
during the training said: “My participation in the academy has been a
great platform for personal and professional development. “Networking with intelligent and motivated colleagues and the
esteemed faculty of the academy has helped shape my vision for the years
ahead. This has truly been a worthwhile experience.’’ Nestlé Nigeria remains committed to investing in people development
and will commence the next session of the Sales Academy in 2020. Nestlé Nigeria Plc began simple trading operations in Nigeria in 1961
and has today grown into a leading food manufacturing and marketing
company. It is the biggest food company in West Africa and employs around 2,300 people and has three world-class factories. Nestlé Nigeria manufactures and markets a range of high quality
brands including NESTLÉ PURE LIFE, GOLDEN MORN, MILO, MAGGI and NESCAFÉ.
(NAN) Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.