GMSC Will Find Solution to Insecurity in Gulf of Guinea’ ·        Orakwusi Decries Illegal Fishing in Country’s Waters The United Nations Office for Drugs and Crime (UNODC) has scored Nigeria  high on efforts and collaborations to tackle maritime insecurity and  smuggling of hard drugs in the Gulf of Guinea. UNODC also applauded  Nigeria for enacting a distinct antipiracy law to broadly confront the  problem of piracy and crimes on the country’s territorial waters and  exclusive economic zone. The representative of the UNODC Country  Director for Nigeria, Mr. Oliver Stolpe, stated these during a press  conference on Tuesday in Abuja on the second day of the ongoing Global  Maritime Security Conference. At a separate press briefing, Chairman, Ship Owners Forum, Mrs. Margaret  Orakwusi, bemoaned the issue of illegal fishing on Nigerian waters,  saying appropriate measures must be applied to stop this for the  interest of the shipping industry.   The Suppression of Piracy and other Maritime Offences Act 2019 was  enacted on June 24, 2019 after an assent by President Muhammadu Buhari,  making Nigeria the first country in West and Central Africa to have a  standalone antipiracy law. The Nigerian Maritime Administration and  Safety Agency (NIMASA) facilitated the drafting of the Suppression of  Piracy and other Maritime Offences Bill in 2012, in collaboration with  the International Maritime Organisation (IMO). Stolpe stated, “We need to recognise the things that have been done  right, that is the Suppression of Piracy Act that was passed by the  Nigerian government, which for the first time gives a comprehensive  framework to tackle the issue of piracy and, more broadly, maritime  crimes. We are on a good path. “The big issue now is the follow up to that, which is the prosecutions.” He said the GMSC was a crucial step in the attempt to deal with insecurity in the Gulf of Guinea. Stolpe, who addressed the press conference alongside the Programme  Officer at the UNODC Office in Nigeria, Mr. Giuseppe Sernia, said one of  the major challenges in the Gulf of Guinea was the “extremely  fragmented” nature of the legal framework regulating the maritime  domain. He said, though, there were regional and international  frameworks in place, gaps existed in terms of the countries signing on  to the conventions and actually putting them into domestic legislations  and policies.   He said the Gulf of Guinea was also targeted for trafficking in hard  drugs, especially cocaine, by sea, with huge seizures recently in Cape  Verde, where almost 10 tons of cocaine were seized, Guinea Bissau, and  other countries.   Stolpe advised countries to apply the United Nations Convention Against  Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances.   Orakwusi, in her own briefing, welcomed the current efforts to regulate  fishing on the country’s waters, but said more needed to be done,  especially to control the movement of the proceeds of illegal fishing.  “We should also watch what the financial institutions are doing, how  monies are transferred from one country to another – proceeds of the  crime of illegal fishing – and again monitor the markets,” she said.  “Where are they selling these products? One good thing with ocean  resources, a prawn can tell its own story, where is it caught. It is  just a little analysis and you will get all the information. So that, to  me, is an effective way of monitoring illegal fishing,” she added. The Suppression of Piracy and other Maritime Offences Act 2019 provides a  legal framework for the prosecution of piracy and other maritime crimes  through the country’s maritime security enforcement agencies: the  Nigerian Navy and NIMASA. It fulfils a critical international  requirement for standalone legislation on piracy, as against the  approach of using the Maritime Operations Coordinating Board Amendment  Bill to criminalise piracy. The law gives effect to the provisions of the United Nations Convention  on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), 1982, and the International Convention  on the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Navigation  (SUA), 1988, and its Protocols. Isichei Osamgbi Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA