As the artillery bombardment and ground assault by troops of the Nigerian Army (NA) intensify across Operation LAFIYA DOLE Theatre, more Boko Haram casualties are being recorded. In a clear case that can be best described as a tactical boomerang, on Friday, 18 October 2019, some marauding Boko Haram criminals elements who were escaping the unbearable battle heat turned on them by NA troops met their waterloo as one of their vehicles, a Toyota Sam Sahara Model, stepped on an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) laid  by them against NA troops at  Lamba’a Forest along Jakana – Mainok Road in Borno State. The self-inflicted destruction consumed 7 Boko Haram criminals while 8 others suffered severe injuries. Consequently, troops have mobilised to the general area for route clearance and mop-up operation. In another development, a syndicate that specializes in the smuggling of smoked fish from the Lake Chad region for sale in some parts of Nigeria have been busted by the diligent troops of Operation LAFIYA DOLE. Reliable information available revealed that Boko Haram criminals/Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) and their collaborators are using the fish business to finance and sustain their heinous activities. The proceeds from the sales are believed to be channelled into the procurement of food stuff, groceries, drugs, toiletries, vehicle spare parts and other items for the sustenance of their criminal activities. Relatedly, troops of Sector 3 Operation LAFIYA DOLE while acting on a reliable intelligence, raided the residence of some suspected illegal fish smugglers near Water Board Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) Camp in Monguno LGA of Borno State. Four suspects were arrested and 16 sacks of smoked fish concealed in a room were recovered. In a similar operation conducted by troops of Sector 2 Operation LAFIYA DOLE on 10 October 2019, 9 vehicles loaded with illegal smoked fish consignments were equally intercepted at Bukarti in Geidam LGA of Yobe State en-route Hadejia in Jigawa State. Consequently, 18 suspects including drivers, conductors, mechanics and agents were also apprehended. In another development, troops deployed at a Check Point along Baga Road in Borno State while on Operation POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION arrested one Musa Ishaku while in possession of a fake Nigeria Customs ID card which he has been using to deceive security agencies. Additionally, troops of 1 Division also rescued 4 kidnapped students from bandits at Gurmi Village in Chikun LGA of Kaduna State after a brief fire fight with criminals. In Rivers State, troops of 16 Brigade Garrison (Main) raided a suspected Sea Pirates Camp at Tingibibi Ogu/Bolo LGA of Rivers State. The suspected sea pirates who obviously could not withstand the overwhelming fire power of the troops, fled the enclave in disarray. Items recovered from the camp include one AK 47 Rifle magazine, 5 rounds    of 7.62mm special ammunition, 3 cartridges, one binocular and 3 para red rocket. In the same vein, troops neutralised one armed robber during an anti-robbery operation at Adipet Filling Station along Rukuba Road in Jos North LGA of Plateau State. Others were believed to have escaped with gun shot wounds. Similarly, following confessional statements made by an arrested notorious bandit/kidnap kingpin named Yellow, troops of 3 Brigade tracked and arrested one of his gang members, Dahiru Dogo in Falgore Forest in Kano State. The Chief of Army Staff Lieutenant General Tukur Yusufu Buratai wishes to reassure the general public on the resolve of the Nigerian Army to rid the society of criminal elements for a secured environment. You are kindly requested to disseminate above information to the general public for awareness. Thank you for your usual cooperation. AMINU ILIYASU Tanimu is an Online Editor with Africa's Largest TV Network. Produces when not on Social media.