The Chief of Staff to the Executive Governor of Niger State, Alhaji Ibrahim Balarabe has advocated for a periodic review of general health status (checkup) of individuals as a necessary step to guide against the unforseen. The Chief of State made the recommendation while declaring open the free Eye care screening and treatment exercise organised by the State Eye care team to mark the 2019 World Sight Day, held at Government House, Minna. He said it is always advisable, from time-to-time, to visit a Physician and find out the general condition of ones body adding that such practice is not only cost-effective but also gives room for early detection of ailments for prompt action. He appreciated the State Eyecare Team for choosing the Government House as venue to mark the World Sight Day and offering the opportunity for a free eye screening, consultation and medication to the staff. The Chief of Staff assured that, where the need arises for any member of staff to go for any secondary eye referral care, government will be opened to assist such persons and ensure they don’t lose their sight. In her remarks, the Acting Permanent Secretary, Government House, Hajiya expressed satisfaction with the exercise and hoped it could be repeated annually. The Permanent Secretary also emphasized the need for regular Eye care checkup stressing that it was wrong and potentially harmful to go on self medication especially with the eyes. “I advice everybody to go to hospital once you have any problem with your eyes. You can not do self medication with your eyes, it’s very dangerous. We need to remain healthy because once you are healthy, you are happy”. Meanwhile, the Team Leader of the programme, Dr. Halima Isah said they were in Government House to mark the World Sight Day with the staff and to associate with the general populace to raise awareness about eye care, identify simple diseases, proffer treatment and render humanitarian service. Dr. Halima Isah said the World Eye Sight Day is a global event marked yearly, every October, to offer free eye care, glasses, free treatment and referral of complicated cases to honour the day. ” This year, the eye care team in Niger State has decided to bring the celebration to Government House. We are targeting about 400 people to offer our services and address some common misconceptions within the society about eye care”. She advised people to go for eye examination yearly in order to pick problems early and to take advice of health professionals rather than listening to hearsays and engaging in harmful traditional eye medication. Mrs. Mary Noel Berje Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA