The National Human Rights Commission has condemned in its strongest term the prevalence of Sexual and Gender Based Violence (SGBV) in the country, especially the several allegations of sex for marks being perpetrated by lecturers in institutions of higher learning. Reacting
to the media report making the rounds on the alleged case of “sex for mark by a
UNILAG lecturer, the Executive Secretary of the Commission, Tony Ojukwu said
until stringent measures are taken and perpetrators of these heinous acts
adequately prosecuted, the menace may continue to linger. He
observed that the Commission has recorded several complaints of sexual and gender-based
violence in recent times which he described as endemic and must be dealt with
as a matter of urgent national concern. He
said as part of measures to curb this crime against humanity, the Commission is
set to hold a public hearing on the matter and “we will also seriously pursue
the prosecution of the case involving Dr. Boniface Igbeneghu a Lecture with the
University of Lagos to the later”. This particular case must not be swept under
the carpet, we will direct our Lagos office to follow this case and ensure the
perpetrator is brought to book, so as to serve as deterrent to others, he added. Speaking
further, Ojukwu said due to the nature of complaints on the prevalence of SGBV
in institutions of higher learning, “the Commission is planning on establishing
a human right desk to deal with general issues of human rights violations
especially as it relates to that of SGBV in our Tertiary Institutions”. While urging members of the public especially family members to desist from interfering with the process of prosecuting SGBV cases by way of withdrawing the matter during investigations, the Executive Secretary is using this medium to call on the Inspector General of Police (IGP), the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and other relevant authorities to ensure a speedy prosecution of various cases of sexual assaults that have been reported in the past. NHRC Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA