The Embassy of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) on Friday in Abuja  began a vocational trainning programme for 100 Nigerian women under its  women empowerment initiative. The UAE Ambassador to Nigeria, Dr Fahad AL-Taffaq, said the programme
was aimed at providing a platform for women’s social development and
sustainability that would allow them acquire valuable skills. “The aim is to promote self-reliance, employment creation and poverty alleviation in the society,” he said. He further said that the initiative was being organised by the UAE
embassy in Abuja, in collaboration with Sharjah Charity International, a
UAE-based charity organisation, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and
International Cooperation, Abu Dhabi. He added that the programme was to be implemented by the National
Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (
NCFRMI) and Aids for Women Adolescents and Children International
Organisation (AWACIO). “I encourage the beneficiaries whom I prefer to call entrepreneurs to
make the most of this opportunity and use it as a tool in changing
their lives, those around them. “Every contribution is very important for the economic development of Nigeria,” he said. The Minister for Humanitarian affairs, Disaster Management and Social
Development, Sadiya Farouk, said the vocational trainning would have a
huge impact on the women, their families, communities and the nation as a
whole. “Many internally displaced persons and widows come under untold
hardship in a a bid to access the basic necessities of life for
themselves and their children. “Empowering them would translate to tremendous benefits for their families and community. “I look forward to a mutual beneficial relationship between the
ministry and the embassy of the UAE and wish them success in the
execution of the programme. Also, Sen. Basheer Mohammed,  Federal Commissioner of NCFRMI, said
evidence had indicated that prolonged humanitarian assistance would make
it more difficult for the beneficiaries to become self-reliant . Mohammed added that the earlier livelihood interventions took place
the easier it would be for displaced persons to regain their self
esteem. “The commission is providing training for 65 IDPs and widows from
different camps within the FCT with funding from the UAE on tailoring
and provision of starter packs to them upon completion. “It is hoped that at the end of the 40 days trainning, these women
will be equipped with skills that will shift them from dependency to
self-reliance and intensify their role in the economic development of
the country,” he said. Dr. Claudia Okeke, CEO, Aids for Women, Adolescents and Children
International Organisation (AWACIO), a non-governmental organisation,
appreciated the UAE for the gesture towards enhancing the livelihood of
widows in FCT. “We appreciate the opportunity to empower 30 widows and these widows
have been trained to use these grinding machines and can start their own
businesses immediately. “AWACIO would monitor the widows quarterly to provide feedback to the
UAE on how they are being economically empowered, ” she said. Hinatufe Henry Solomon is a graduate of Computer Science, specialist in ICT Support Services. Henry is also proficient in use of most online journalism tools and Social media management. He currently serve as Information Technology Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network.