 As part of its efforts towards rehabilitation of bad roads across the state, Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani Bello, has signed an Executive Order restricting the movement of heavy duty vehicles to night hours. In a press statement made available to newsmen in Minna, the Solicitor General and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Justice, Bar. Adamu Panti Mohammed, explained that the order known as; Trailers, Tankers and other Heavy motor vehicles Order no.2, 2019, has since come into effect. He said that the new order has repealed the old one and seeks to regulate the movement of heavy duty vehicles and trucks to the hours of 10 pm to 6 am daily. Barister Panti further stated that no trailer, tanker or any other vehicle loaded with inflammable and combustible products is allowed to park within residential areas. He stressed that failure to abide by the new order will attract punishment as the order has some penal provisions to be applied to those who flout it. “Any person who drives a trailer or other heavy duty vehicle and abandons or fails to remove the said vehicle within reasonable time and thus obstruct normal flow of traffic, has committed an offence and shall be liable on conviction to serve a term of not less than six months imprisonment and a fine of #500,000. “If the relevant state agencies has to tow away the vehicle, the owner shall pay and defray all towing expenses and for each day that the vehicle remain unclaimed, he shall pay a demurrage of #50,000, and if unclaimed for 30 days, the said vehicle will be forfeited to government. “Any person who harasses, threatens, insults, intimidates, obstructs, assaults, batters or disobeys any officer of the state or a security personnel in the course of enforcing this order, has committed an offence and shall upon conviction be liable to a term of imprisonment of not less than six months and a fine of #500,000, he added. He said a Magistrate Court of any grade shall have the power to summarily try the offences. He however pointed out that such vehicles discharging within Minna or enroute to Kebbi State and vehicles carrying perishable goods for the purpose of offloading within Minna metropolis, were allowed to move between 11:am to 3:pm daily. Mrs Mary Noel BerjeChief Press Secretary Suleiman idris is a graduate of Fed Univ of Tech Minna (BTECH Mathematics/Comp Science), Specialist in ICT Support Services. also proficient in use of  online journalism tools & Social media management.  I currently serve as I.T Officer with Africa's Largest TV Network NTA